
.ds OS UNIX

.\"     @(#)tmac.an 1.37 90/02/04 SMI;
.ds ]W Psi Release 1.1
'	# month name
.  \".if "\nd"0" .nr m \n(mo-1
.  \".if "\nm"0" .ds ]m January
.  \".if "\nm"1" .ds ]m February
.  \".if "\nm"2" .ds ]m March
.  \".if "\nm"3" .ds ]m April
.  \".if "\nm"4" .ds ]m May
.  \".if "\nm"5" .ds ]m June
.  \".if "\nm"6" .ds ]m July
.  \".if "\nm"7" .ds ]m August
.  \".if "\nm"8" .ds ]m September
.  \".if "\nm"9" .ds ]m October
.  \".if "\nm"10" .ds ]m November
.  \".if "\nm"11" .ds ]m December
'	# set the date
.  \".if n \{.nr m \nm+1
.  \".	 ie \nd .ds ]W Modified \nm/\nd/\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W Printed \n(mo/\n(dy/\n(yr\}
.  \".if t \{.ie \nd .ds ]W \*(]m \nd, 19\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W \*(]m \n(dy, 19\n(yr\}
'	# end of commented out chunk
.if t .tr *\(**
.ie n \{\
.	ds lq \&"\"
.	ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.	ds rq ''
.	ds lq ``
.\}
.de UC
.  \".if t \{\
.  \".	ie "\\$1"" .ds ]W 3rd Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	ie "\\$1"4" .ds ]W \\$1th Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	el .ds ]w \\$2 \\$1 BSD
.  \".\}
..
'	# reset the basic page layout
.de }E
.}f
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.ll \\n(LLu
..
'	# default tabs
.de DT
'ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i 6i 6.5i
..
'	# set type font and size
.de }f
.ps 10
.ft 1
..
'	# handle the head of the page
.de }H
.ev 1
.}C
'sp .5i
.ft 1
.ps 10
.tl \\*(]H\\*(]D\\*(]H
'sp .5i
.ev
.ns
..
'	# handle the foot of the page
.de }F
.ev 1
.ft 1
.ps 10
'sp .5i
.if !\\nD .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if o .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if e .tl \\*(PN%\\*(]L\\*(]W
.if !\\nX 'bp
.if \\nX .if \\n%>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\n%
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0
'bp 1\}
.if \\nX .if \\n%<\\nX 'bp
.ev
..
'	# the cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".if n .ig
.  \".de }C
.  \".po .1i
.  \".tl '-'
.  \".po
.  \"..
'	# the final cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".de }M
.  \".}N
.  \".wh -1p }C
.  \".ll \\n(LLu
.  \"..
'	# no runout unless there was a .TH
.de }K
.}N
.pl 1
.ll \\n(LLu
..
.em }K
'	# set title and heading
.de TH
.PD
.DT
.if n .nr IN .5i
.if t .nr IN .5i
.ll 6.5i
.nr LL \\n(.l
.ds ]H \\$1\|(\|\\$2\|)
.ds ]D MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES
.if '\\$2'1' .ds ]D PSI COMMANDS FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'2' .ds ]D PSI COMMON INPUT FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'3' .ds ]D PSI PROCEDURES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'4' .ds ]D PSI EXAMPLES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'5' .ds ]D PSI LIBRARY
.if !'\\$4''  .ds ]W \\$4
.if !'\\$5''  .ds ]D \\$5
.wh 0 }H
.if t .wh -1i }F
.if n .wh -1.167i }F
.em }M
.if !\\n(nl .if !\\nP .nr P 1
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .pn \\nP
.if \\nX .if \\nP>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\nP
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0 \}
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .nr P 0
.if  \\nC .if \\n(nl .bp
.if  !\\nC .if \\n(nl .bp 1
.ds ]L Last change: \\$3
.}E
.DT
.nr )I .5i
.nr )R 0
.  \".if n .na
.mk ka
.if !'\\n(ka'-1' .bp
..
'	# IX - Make an Index Entry
.de IX
.if \\nF .tm .IE\tENTRY\t\\$1\t\\$2\t\\$3\t\\$4\t\\$5\t\\$6\t\\*(PN\\n%
..
'	# TX - Resolve a Title Reference
.de TX
.ds Tx "UNKNOWN TITLE ABBREVIATION: \\$1
.if '\\$1'GSBG' .ds Tx "Getting Started 
.if '\\$1'SUBG' .ds Tx "Customizing SunOS
.if '\\$1'SHBG' .ds Tx "Basic Troubleshooting
.if '\\$1'SVBG' .ds Tx "SunView User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MMBG' .ds Tx "Mail and Messages
.if '\\$1'DMBG' .ds Tx "Doing More with SunOS
.if '\\$1'UNBG' .ds Tx "Using the Network
.if '\\$1'GDBG' .ds Tx "Games, Demos & Other Pursuits
.if '\\$1'CHANGE' .ds Tx "SunOS 4.1 Release Manual
.if '\\$1'INSTALL' .ds Tx "Installing SunOS 4.1
.if '\\$1'ADMIN' .ds Tx "System and Network Administration
.if '\\$1'SECUR' .ds Tx "Security Features Guide
.if '\\$1'PROM' .ds Tx "PROM User's Manual
.if '\\$1'DIAG' .ds Tx "Sun System Diagnostics
.if '\\$1'SUNDIAG' .ds Tx "Sundiag User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MANPAGES' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'REFMAN' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'SSI' .ds Tx "Sun System Introduction
.if '\\$1'SSO' .ds Tx "System Services Overview
.if '\\$1'TEXT' .ds Tx "Editing Text Files
.if '\\$1'DOCS' .ds Tx "Formatting Documents
.if '\\$1'TROFF' .ds Tx "Using \&\fBnroff\fP and \&\fBtroff\fP
.if '\\$1'INDEX' .ds Tx "Global Index
.if '\\$1'CPG' .ds Tx "C Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'CREF' .ds Tx "C Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'ASSY' .ds Tx "Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'PUL' .ds Tx "Programming Utilities and Libraries
.if '\\$1'DEBUG' .ds Tx "Debugging Tools
.if '\\$1'NETP' .ds Tx "Network Programming
.if '\\$1'DRIVER' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers
.if '\\$1'STREAMS' .ds Tx "STREAMS Programming
.if '\\$1'SBDK' .ds Tx "SBus Developer's Kit
.if '\\$1'WDDS' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers for the SBus
.if '\\$1'FPOINT' .ds Tx "Floating-Point Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVSPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 System Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'PIXRCT' .ds Tx "Pixrect Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CGI' .ds Tx "SunCGI Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CORE' .ds Tx "SunCore Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'4ASSY' .ds Tx "Sun-4 Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'SARCH' .ds Tx "\s-1SPARC\s0 Architecture Manual
.	# non-Sun titles
.if '\\$1'KR' .ds Tx "The C Programming Language
\fI\\*(Tx\fP\\$2
..
'	# section heading
.de SH
.}X 0
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
..
'   # sub section heading
.de SS
.}X .25i "" ""
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
.br
..
'	# subroutine for section heading
.de }X
.}E
.ti \\$1
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.nr )R 0
.fi
.it 1 }N
.SM
.B
..
'	# end of SH (cf }X above and }N below)
.de }2
.nr )E 0
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# italic
.de I
.ft 2
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# bold
.de B
.ft 3
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# small
.de SM
.ps 9
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# combinations of Roman, italic, bold
.de RI
.}S 1 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de VS
'if '\\$1'4' .mc \s12\(br\s0
..
.de VE
'mc
..
.de RB
.}S 1 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IR
.}S 2 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IB
.}S 2 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BR
.}S 3 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BI
.}S 3 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
'	# make special case of shift out of italic
.de }S
.ds ]F
.if "\\$1"2" .if !"\\$5"" .ds ]F\^
.ie !"\\$4"" .}S \\$2 \\$1 "\\$3\f\\$1\\$4\\*(]F" "\\$5" "\\$6" "\\$7" "\\$8" "\\$9"
.el \\$3
.}f
..
'	# small and boldface
.de SB
\&\fB\s-1\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6\s0\fR
..
'	# paragraph
.de LP
.PP
..
.de PP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# paragraph distance
.de PD
.if t .nr )P .4v
.if n .nr )P 1v
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )P \\$1v
..
'	# hanging indent
.de HP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.}f
..
'	# indented paragraph
.de IP
.TP \\$2
\&\\$1
..
'	# hanging label
.de TP
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.sp \\n()Pu
.in \\n()Ru
.nr )E 1
.ns
.it 1 }N
.di ]B
..
'	# end of TP (cf }N below)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
'	# handle end of 1-line features
.de }N
.if \\n()E .br
.di
.if "\\n()E"0" .}f
.if "\\n()E"1" .}1
.if "\\n()E"2" .}2
.nr )E 0
..
'	# increase relative indent
.de RS
.nr ]\\n+()p \\n()I
.nr )\\n()p \\n()R
.ie !"\\$1"" .nr )R +\\$1n
.el .nr )R +\\n()I
.nr )I .5i
.}E
..
'	# decrease relative indent
.de RE
.if !"\\$1"" \{.ie "\\$1"0" .nr )p 1 1
.		el .nr )p \\$1 1\}
.ds ]i \\*(]I\\n()p
.ds ]r \\*(]R\\n()p
.nr )I \\*(]i
.nr )R \\*(]r
.if \\n()p .nr )p -1
.}E
..
.nr )p 0 1
.ds ]I \\\\n(]
.ds ]R \\\\n()
.bd S 3 3
.if t .ds R \(rg
.if n .ds R (Reg.)
.ds S \s10
.hy 14

.if !'\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(Lv \*(OS USERS
..
.if '\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(OS USERS
..

.ds ]W Psi Release 2.0

.\" This is used to ignore blanks on a line
.\" Its purpose is to make the troff input look prettier.
.de __
\\$1
..

.\" Start List
.de sL                  \" .sL: start an optional list
.di dL
.LP   \" This resets some things, apparently
.nf
..

.\" End List
.de eL                  \" .eL: end an optional list under heading $1
.di
.fi
.\" The number 40 on the following line must be change if sL or eL are changed
.if \\n(dn>40  \{\
.\"SH \\$1 -- \\n(dn \" Use this line for debugging
.SH \\$1
.nf
.dL
.fi
.\}
..

.\" The input skip string, used to space headings.
.ds sS \0\0\0\0\0\0\0

.\" Input Section Header
.iS
.de iS
.LP
.nf
\\$1
.fi
..

.\" Input Line
.de iL
.IP "\\$1" 7
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option
.de iO
.IP "\\*(sS\\$1" 14
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option Value
.de iV
.IP "\\*(sS\\*(sS\\$1" 21
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Start CMS
.de sC
.if !'\\*(OS'CMS' .ig eC
..
.\" End Advanced with .eC

.\" Start UNIX
.de sU
.if !'\\*(OS'UNIX' .ig eU
..
.\" End Advanced with .eU

.\" Start Advanced
.de sA
.if !'\\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig eA
..
.\" End Advanced with .eA

.\" Start Beginner
.de sB
.if !'\\*(Lv'' .ig eB
..
.\" End Beginner with .eB

.\" Psi Name
.de pN                  \" .pN: convert a generic file name to a specific name
.ta 2.5in
.if '\*(OS'CMS' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO             \" Unix only
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO BASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO PBASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN'  .ds pO HVIB15
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO FILE15
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO FILE91
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO FILE92
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
.if '\*(OS'UNIX' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'INPUT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'LMO' .ds pO lmo.dat
. if '\\$1'CONTOUR' .ds pO contour.ps
. if '\\$1'CMO' .ds pO cmo.dat
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO basis.dat
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO pbasis.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL1' .ds pO resul1.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL2' .ds pO resul2.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL3' .ds pO             \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'SLOFILE' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'INTDERO' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'MAKEFT' .ds pO resul3.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDER1' .ds pO intder1.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDIFO' .ds pO intdifo.dat
. if '\\$1'IDER'   .ds pO ider.dat
. if '\\$1'OPDM48' .ds pO file51.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12A' .ds pO file12a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16A' .ds pO file16a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21A' .ds pO file21a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE11' .ds pO file11.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12' .ds pO file12.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE13' .ds pO file13.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE14' .ds pO file14.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL15' .ds pO total15.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL20' .ds pO total20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE15' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE17' .ds pO file17.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE18' .ds pO file18.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE19' .ds pO file19.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE20' .ds pO file20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21' .ds pO file21.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE22' .ds pO file22.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE23' .ds pO file23.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE24' .ds pO file24.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE25' .ds pO file25.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO file91a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO file92a.dat
. if '\\$1'CHECK' .ds pO tape3.dat
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO output.dat\" Unix only
. if '\\$1'FILE6' .ds pO              \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'BMAT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'INTCO' .ds pO intco.dat
. if '\\$1'GEOM' .ds pO geom.dat
. if '\\$1'FCONST' .ds pO fconst.dat
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
..                      \" End of .pN macro definition

.TH bmat 1 "15 July, 1991" "Psi Release 2.0" "\*(]D"
.SH NAME
bmat \- determines displacements for geometry optimizations

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The program
.B bmat
is an extensively modified version of Prof. Peter Pulay's
"BMAT" program.  The
.B bmat
program also incorporates the eigenvector following
routine OPTEFC of Dr. Jon Baker.

.LP
The main tasks performed by \fBbmat\fP are:

.IP "1." 5
Geometry optimizations can be carried out completely in
internal coordinates.  The
.B bmat
program takes Cartesian geometries and
energy gradients and transforms these to internal coordinates and
internal forces.  The user also supplies an initial-guess force
constant matrix in internal coordinates.  This can be built up
from values found in the literature for previous calculations or
from experiments.  Alternatively, a set of force constants from a
small basis set calculation can be used.  The force constants are
updated using various Hessian update methods and placed
in the file
.pN RESUL2 .
The update methods can be selected from:

.RS +.5in
.IP "a)"
Powell (symmetric Broyden), which does not enforce positive
definiteness.
This is the default for transition structures.
.IP "b)"
Davidon-Fletcher-Powell
.IP "c)"
The variable metric method of Murtaugh and Sargent.
.IP "d)"
Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (BFGS), which is usually
the best for equilibrium geometries.
This is the default for minima.
.RE

.IP
New internal coordinates are obtained according to the Newton-
Raphson scheme and transformed back into Cartesian
coordinates.  These are placed at the top of the file
called
.pN GEOM
in the format appropriate for the \fBugeom\fP program.

.IP "2."
Cartesian coordinates can be generated for displacements along
internal coordinates.  The
.B bmat
program takes as input the reference
geometry in Cartesian coordinates along with the specification
of the internal coordinate distortion(s) to be made.  The
Cartesian coordinates corresponding to the internal coordinate
distortion(s) are placed in the the file called
.pN GEOM ,
with the most recent displacement at the bottom.
If atomic masses are given, the transformations between Cartesian
and internal coordinates will be in accordance with the Eckart
conditions (see Wilson, Decius & Cross "Molecular Vibrations"
(1955), Section 11-1).  (This is important if displacements of
dipole moments are desired.)

.IP "3."
The \fBbmat\fP program can be used to simply compute and print the B-matrix
which transforms Cartesian coordinates to internal coordinates.

.LP
Geometry optimizations in internal coordinates are always
carried out in the totally symmetric irreducible
representation of the point group of the system in question
(e.g. A' for 
.if n Cs,
.if t C\s-2\ds\u\s0,
.if n A1 
.if t A\s-2\d1\u\s0
for 
.if n C2v,
.if t C\s-2\d2v\u\s0,
.if n Ag 
.if t A\s-2\dg\u\s0
for 
.if n D2h,
.if t D\s-2\d2h\u\s0,
etc.).  Some of
the most frequent causes of error in the use of \fBbmat\fP are
the attempt to use fewer coordinates than there are degrees
of freedom, and the use of redundant sets of coordinates.
For 
.if n H2O,
.if t H\s-2\d2\u\s0O,
it is obvious that there are two 
.if n A1 
.if t A\s-2\d1\u\s0
coordinates that
one would use to optimize the molecule.  For very large
systems, however, it is sometimes tedious to work out the
number of coordinates of a particular symmetry and some useful
time-saving formulas are given in H. H. Jaffe and M. Orchin
"Symmetry in Chemistry" (Wiley-Interscience, New York, 1965),
Appendix 2.
If it is desired to obtain asymmetric displacements then all
3N-6 internal coordinates need to be specified.

.LP
If an optimization gets bollixed up in any way, it may be that
the file called
.pN RESUL2
is causing problems.  If the old
geometry in
.pN RESUL2
and the geometry in
.pN FILE11
are the same, the
Hessian updates will behave badly.  It may be necessary to
erase the
.pN RESUL2
file and start the update over.

.LP
Occasionally problems may arise due to a discontinuity in the
definition of an internal coordinate (e.g. a nearly linear
angle or out-of-plane angle near 90 degrees).  Solution: try
different angle definitions.


.SH EIGENVECTOR FOLLOWING

.LP
The eigenvector following routine (OPTEFC) is an efficient
quasi-Newton algorithm for locating transition structures.
It can also be used to locate minima.
It was written by Jon Baker as a local addition to the GAUSSIAN 82
package in Leo Radom's group.
The eigenvector following routine is invoked with the EIGF
option.

.LP
The method is based on a modification to the Newton-Raphson
step first proposed by Cerjan and Miller <1>, although the major
part of the algorithm is based on the later developments of Simons
and coworkers <2,3>.  It is capable of locating transition
structures even if started in the wrong region of the energy
surface, and, by invoking Hessian mode following, can locate
several different transition structures from the same initial
starting point.

.LP
A discussion of the formalism and the ideas behind it,
together with a description of the algorithm and some practical
examples are given in ref <4>.


.SH MODE FOLLOWING
.LP
For a transition structure search, maximization normally
takes place along the lowest mode and minimization along all other
modes.  However, as first pointed out by Cerjan and Miller <1>,
it is possible to maximize along modes other than the lowest and
in this manner obtain transition structures for alternative
rearrangements and/or dissociations from the same initial
starting point.

.LP
Mode following is switched on for OPTEFC by means of the MODE
option in
.pN BMAT .
The lines "MODEF = yes", "MF_METHOD = intco", and "MF_MODE = n" 
for a particular variable "n"
will cause a transition structure search to follow the Hessian
mode with the largest magnitude component for that variable.
The idea behind this is that, in many cases, the various Hessian
modes are dominated by a single variable corresponding to a large
change in a particular bond length or bond angle say, and it is
this particular parameter that is required to change the most
during a transition structure search.  For example, looking for a
dissociation transition structure should involve change in
essentially just one parameter - the bond length between the two
dissociating moieties - and following the mode with the largest
magnitude component for this bond length should have the best
chance of leading to the desired transition structure.

.LP
This is not always the case however, and specific Hessian
modes can be followed without any reference to particular
internal variables by using "MODEF = yes", "MF_METHOD = hessian",
and "MODE = n", causing the nth
mode to be followed.

.LP
Note that only one mode can be followed at a time.


.SH ERROR MESSAGES IN OPTEFC
.LP
A certain amount of input checking is done in the subroutine
INITEF and most of the error message printout occurs here.
Nothing else should go wrong, although it is theoretically
possible for the iterative procedure which calculates the
eigenvalue shift parameter lambda in subroutine FORMD to fail.
Either the procedure will not converge, in which case the message

.RS +1.in
.nf
****************************************
** UNABLE to determine lamda in FORMD **
****************************************
.fi
.RE

.LP
will be printed out, or convergence will be attained, but to an
unacceptable value, giving the message

.RS +1.in
.nf
*****************************************
** ERROR in determining lamda in FORMD **
*****************************************
.fi
.RE

.LP
It is EXTREMELY UNLIKELY for either of these events to occur.
If they do, the internal coordinates should be checked carefully;
specifying more variables than are allowed for by symmetry may be
what is causing the problem.  Also double check that the geometry
and forces in the
.pN FILE11
are different from the "old" ones in
.pN RESUL2 .
Note that switching on the Newton-Raphson step (setting NWT_RPH=true)
obviates the need to calculate a shift parameter, although this
can only be used in the right region of the energy surface.


.SH REFERENCES
.LP
References for BMAT:
.IP "1."
P. Pulay in "Applications of Electronic Structure Theory", ed. H.
F. Schaefer (Plenum, New York, 1977) p. 165.
.LP
References for OPTEFC:
.IP "1."
C. J. Cerjan and W. H. Miller, J. Chem. Phys. 75 (1981) 2800.
.IP "2."
J. Simons, P. Jorgensen, H. Taylor and J. Ozment, J. Phys.
Chem. 87 (1983) 2745.
.IP "3."
A. Banerjee, N. Adams, J. Simons and R. Shepard, J. Phys. Chem.
89 (1985) 52.
.IP "4."
J. Baker, J. Comput. Chem. 7 (1986) 385.

.sL
.pN INPUT
.pN FCONST "	force constants in internal"
.pN "\&" "	coordinates"
.pN FILE11 "	geometry and gradient read from here"
.pN RESUL2
.eL "FILES REQUIRED"

.sL
.pN OUTPUT       "	(main output)"
.pN RESUL3       "	(internal forces)"
.pN MAKEFT       "	(accumulated internal forces)"
.eL "FILES GENERATED"

.sL
.pN RESUL2
.pN GEOM
.eL "FILES UPDATED"


.SH INPUT FORMAT
.LP
The 
.B bmat
program searches through the default keyword path (first
.B BMAT
and then
.BR DEFAULT )
The following keywords are valid:


.IP "\fBFIX_COORD =\fP \fIinteger_vector\fP"
This is a vector containing the numbers of those internal
coordinates in the
.B SYMM
vector which will be frozen in the geometry optimization.
Defaults to zero vector.

.IP "\fBNOUP =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If this option is true, Hessian updating is not
performed.  Otherwise, the internal coordinates and forces
in the previous step of the geometry optimization are used
to improve the force constant matrix.  The default is false.

.IP "\fBEIGF =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true, the EIGF option specifies that the eigenvector following
routine OPTEFC is to be used to perform the geometry
optimization.  The default is false.  The following options are
used in conjunction with the
.B EIGF
option:


.iO      "\fBMINIMUM =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
.iV          "false"  "Find a TS"
.iV          "true"   "Find a minimum (default)"

.iO      "\fBMAX_STEP =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Maximum stepsize allowed during optimization
.iV           "= 0"   "DMAX = 0.3 (default)"
.iV           "= n>0"   "DMAX = 0.01*n"

.iO      "\fBUPDT =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Type of Hessian update
.iV           "= 0"   "Powell update (default)"
.iV           "= 1"   "BFGS update (used for minima)"
.iV           "= 2"
BFGS update with safeguards to ensure retention
of positive definiteness

.iO      "\fBEIG_MAX =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Maximum allowable magnitude of Hessian eignvalues.
If this magnitude is exceeded, the eigenvalue is
replaced.
.iV           "= 0"   "EIGMAX = 25.0 (default)"
.iV           "= n>0"   "EIGMAX = 0.1*n"

.iO      "\fBEIG_MIN =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Minimum allowable magnitude of Hessian eigenvalues.
.iV           "= 0"   "EIGMIN = 0.0001 (default)"
.iV           "= n>0"   "EIGMIN = 1.0/n"

.iO      "\fBNWT_RPH =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
Search selection
.iV           "false"   "P-RFO or RFO step only (default)"
.iV           "true"
P-RFO or RFO step for "wrong" Hessian otherwise
Newton-Raphson

.iO      "\fBNO_PRINT =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
Print option
.iV           "false"   "Turns on extra printing (default)."
.iV           "true" "Turns off extra printing."

.iO      "\fBDEBUG =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
.iV           "false"   "Turns off debug printing (default)."
.iV           "true"   "Turns on debug printing."

.iL
Setting 
.B UPDT
= 2 ensures that the BFGS update
(the default update for a minimum search) retains positive
definiteness; i.e. if the Hessian before the update has all
positive eigenvalues, then so will the updated Hessian.
In most cases the BFGS update retains positive definiteness
anyway, but this is not guaranteed.  Use of this option will
cause the update to be skipped if positive definiteness is
endangered.  Thus, once the Hessian becomes positive definite,
it will remain so within the limits of numerical rounding
error.  Such a feature is, of course, not desirable for a
transition structure search, and use of the BFGS update is
consequently not recommended when searching for a transition
structure.

.iL
If there is a conflict in the updating methods specified
by 
.B UPDT
and EXPLICITLY by BMAT, the BMAT option will take
precedence.

.IP "\fBMODEF =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
Used with 
.B EIGF ,
this option turns on mode following in OPTEFC.
The default is false.

.IP "\fBMF_METHOD =\fP \fIstring\fP"
.IP "\fBMF_MODE =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Used with 
.B EIGF 
and
.B MODEF .
If 
.B MF_METHOD
is "HESSIAN", then
.B MF_MODE
is the
number of the Hessian mode (as ordered by eigenvalue) to be
followed.  In transition structure searches, this
is 1 by default (i.e. the lowest mode).
If 
.B MF_METHOD
is "INTCO", then
.B MF_MODE
is the number of the
internal coordinate that determines which mode is followed
(the mode with the highest component for that internal
coordinate).
.B MF_METHOD
defaults to "HESSIAN", and
.B MF_MODE
defaults to 1.

.IP "\fBDISPLACEMENTS =\fP \fIdisplacement_vector\fP"
If the 
.B DISPLACEMENTS
vector is present, 
this indicates that the aim of the calculation is not to
transform forces but to obtain molecular geometries which are
distorted in a prescribed way from the reference geometry.
Note that the distortions
are exact curvilinear distortions.  There is no default.
Each element of this vector is a vector consisting of internal
coordinate indices and displacement values.  For example, if
you desire two displacements, the first being a displacement of
internal coordinate 1 by 0.01 angstroms, the second a combination
of displacements, ie. coordinate 1 displaced by 0.01 angstroms and
coordinate 2 by 0.05 angstroms, the 
.B DISPLACEMENTS 
vector would be:
.DS
   displacements = (
     (1 0.01)
     (1 0.01 2 0.05))
.DE

.IP "\fBBOHR =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
This option is for use with the DISPLACEMENTS option.  It specifies
that displacements for bond stretching coordinates are given
in bohr rather than Angstrom.  (Units for angular coordinates
are still in radians.)  The default is false.

.IP "\fBDEGR =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
This option is for use with the DISPLACEMENTS option.  It specifies
that displacements for angular coordinates are given in
degrees rather than radians.  (Units for stretching
coordinates are still in Angstrom.)  The default is false.

.IP "\fBDUMMY_ATOMS =\fP \fIreal_array\fP"
This option is for use with the DISPLACEMENTS option.  It specifies
the Cartesian coordinates of a dummy atom for linear bends.
The program zooms the dummy atom out to a distance of 1
billion angstrom so that displacements using LIN1 and LIN2
are degenerate.  The Cartesian coordinates generated do not
include the dummy atom.
The \fIreal_array\fP is a vector of coordinates of each dummy atom.
Each element of this vector is another vector in the
form \fB(\fP\fIx\fP \fIy\fP \fIz\fP\fB)\fP.
The numbering for the dummy atoms begins at NA+1 (NA = number of atoms).

.IP "\fBMASSES =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
This (optional) vector specifies the masses of each atom.  This
defaults to a vector of natom ones.
If the masses are specified, the calculation of the new
Cartesian coordinates is performed such that the Eckart
conditions are obeyed.  It is important to do this if you
wish to calculate displacements of dipole moments.

.IP "\fBSYMBOLS =\fP \fIstring_vector\fP"
This (optional) vector specifies atomic symbols for each atom.  This
defaults to a vector of blanks.  Only used for print out.

.IP "\fBAT_NUMBER =\fP \fIinteger_vector\fP"
This (optional) vector specifies atomic numbers for each atom.  This
defaults to a vector of zeros.  Only used for print out.

.\" ---------------------------------------- Uncommonly used input here:
.LP
There are also a large number of less commonly used input parameters.
If you do not understand what the following options mean, then
make sure that they do not appear in your input.  The defaults will
work in the overwhelming majority of cases.
These are specified with the following keywords:

.IP "\fBFMAT =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true, this indicates that a force constant matrix is to be read
in.  The units of the force constants are mdyne/A, mdyne or
mdyne*A depending on the type of internal coordinate.
If this is the first cycle, the force constant matrix is read
in from the
.pN FCONST
file (see below).
On subsequent cycles, the force constant matrix and old data
(internal coordinates, forces, and displacements) are read in
from the file called
.pN RESUL2 .
The program keeps track of the number of optimization cycles
through the information on the file called
.pN RESUL2 .
The default is true.

.IP "\fBANGSTROMS =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true, this indicates that the nuclear coordinates are to be
read in Angstrom units as opposed to atomic units.  The default
is false.

.IP "\fBGDYN =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true, the Cartesian forces are read in with units
of mdyne.  Keep in mind that the forces in
.pN FILE11
are in
atomic units, so this option should only be used if the forces
are to be typed in by hand. The default is false.

.IP "\fBWRT_BMAT =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
This causes the program to print the B-matrix to the file
called
.pN MAKEFT .
The default is false.

.IP "\fBINT_FORCES =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
This vector (of length nsym, where nsym = the number of
internal coordinates) contains the internal forces.  If given,
the program will not read the Cartesian forces in
.pN FILE11 .
The dimensions of the
internal forces should be compatible with the energy measured
in AJ (=mdyne*A) and with the stretching coordinates measured
in Angstrom, bending ones in radian.  There is no default.

.IP "\fBUPDATE =\fP \fIstring\fP"
If 
.B UPDATE
= "MURT"
use the Murtagh-Sargent update method.

If 
.B UPDATE
= "POWL"
use the Powell update method.  This is the default for transition structures.

If 
.B UPDATE
= "DFLP"
use the Davidon-Fletcher-Powell update method.

If 
.B UPDATE
= "BFGS"
use the BFGS update method.  This is default for minima.

.IP "\fBFLT1 =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
The 
.B FLT1
vector consists of up to four 
.I ETA 
values. The
.B FLT1
vector specifies that the Fletcher-Powell method of optimization
is to be used rather than the variable metric method of
Murtagh-Sargent.  With 
.B FLT1 ,
the first part of the algorithm
is implemented.  The 
.B FMAT 
option must also be true if the
.B FLT1 
option is present.  The 
.I ETAn 
values are steps along the
Fletcher-Powell direction vector for which Cartesian
coordinates are desired.  If, for example, only two steps are
desired, do not enter 
.I ETA3 
or 
.I ETA4 .  
The new sets of Cartesian
coordinates are written to the top of the 
.pN GEOM 
file in
the format appropriate for the 
.B ugeom
program.


.IP "\fBFLT2 =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
.IP "\fBFLT2E =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
With 
.B FLT2 
and
.B FLT2E
the second part of the Fletcher-Powell algorithm is
implemented.  The three (
.I ETA ,
.I ENERGY ) 
pairs allow computation
of the 
.I ETA 
value which minimizes the energy along the
Fletcher-Powell vector, whence Cartesian coordinates for a
new gradient calculation are computed.



.SH INTERNAL COORDINATE SPECIFICATION

.LP
Internal coordinates are defined in the 
.B INTCO
section of the input.
The format is a bit unusual, so it would be best to give an example
first.  For water, the 
.B INTCO
section should look like this:
.DS

 intco: (
  stre = (
   (1 1 2)
   (2 1 3))

  bend = (
   (3 2 1 3))

  symm = (
   ("c-h sym st" (1 2))
   ("ch2 bend" (3))
   )
 )

.DE
.LP
For more information on the definition of internal coordinates, see the
intco(2) man page.

.SH FORCE CONSTANTS
If the 
.B FMAT 
option is true and 
.B NOEX 
is false (or it
is the first optimization cycle), then an approximation to
the internal coordinate force constant matrix is read in from the
.pN FCONST
file.  This file is written by 
.B intder .

.iO  "((FC(I,J), J=1,I), I=1,NQ)"
where NQ is the number of internal coordinates

.iO
Each row of the force constant matrix is read up to and
including the diagonal element.  Each row begins on a new
line.

.iO
It is usually a good idea to get this file from a second
derivative calculation done at a lower level of theory.
If this is your first attempt then
just use values of 3.0 - 8.0 (for stretching coordinates) and
1.0 (for bending coordinates) for the diagonal force
constants, and leave the rest zero.  If experimental force
constants are used, they should be scaled by 1.21 to get
better results.
For transition structure optimizations, it is important to
start with an analytical Hessian (calculated, perhaps, at a
very low level of theory).
