
.ds OS UNIX

.\"     @(#)tmac.an 1.37 90/02/04 SMI;
.ds ]W Psi Release 1.1
'	# month name
.  \".if "\nd"0" .nr m \n(mo-1
.  \".if "\nm"0" .ds ]m January
.  \".if "\nm"1" .ds ]m February
.  \".if "\nm"2" .ds ]m March
.  \".if "\nm"3" .ds ]m April
.  \".if "\nm"4" .ds ]m May
.  \".if "\nm"5" .ds ]m June
.  \".if "\nm"6" .ds ]m July
.  \".if "\nm"7" .ds ]m August
.  \".if "\nm"8" .ds ]m September
.  \".if "\nm"9" .ds ]m October
.  \".if "\nm"10" .ds ]m November
.  \".if "\nm"11" .ds ]m December
'	# set the date
.  \".if n \{.nr m \nm+1
.  \".	 ie \nd .ds ]W Modified \nm/\nd/\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W Printed \n(mo/\n(dy/\n(yr\}
.  \".if t \{.ie \nd .ds ]W \*(]m \nd, 19\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W \*(]m \n(dy, 19\n(yr\}
'	# end of commented out chunk
.if t .tr *\(**
.ie n \{\
.	ds lq \&"\"
.	ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.	ds rq ''
.	ds lq ``
.\}
.de UC
.  \".if t \{\
.  \".	ie "\\$1"" .ds ]W 3rd Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	ie "\\$1"4" .ds ]W \\$1th Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	el .ds ]w \\$2 \\$1 BSD
.  \".\}
..
'	# reset the basic page layout
.de }E
.}f
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.ll \\n(LLu
..
'	# default tabs
.de DT
'ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i 6i 6.5i
..
'	# set type font and size
.de }f
.ps 10
.ft 1
..
'	# handle the head of the page
.de }H
.ev 1
.}C
'sp .5i
.ft 1
.ps 10
.tl \\*(]H\\*(]D\\*(]H
'sp .5i
.ev
.ns
..
'	# handle the foot of the page
.de }F
.ev 1
.ft 1
.ps 10
'sp .5i
.if !\\nD .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if o .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if e .tl \\*(PN%\\*(]L\\*(]W
.if !\\nX 'bp
.if \\nX .if \\n%>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\n%
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0
'bp 1\}
.if \\nX .if \\n%<\\nX 'bp
.ev
..
'	# the cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".if n .ig
.  \".de }C
.  \".po .1i
.  \".tl '-'
.  \".po
.  \"..
'	# the final cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".de }M
.  \".}N
.  \".wh -1p }C
.  \".ll \\n(LLu
.  \"..
'	# no runout unless there was a .TH
.de }K
.}N
.pl 1
.ll \\n(LLu
..
.em }K
'	# set title and heading
.de TH
.PD
.DT
.if n .nr IN .5i
.if t .nr IN .5i
.ll 6.5i
.nr LL \\n(.l
.ds ]H \\$1\|(\|\\$2\|)
.ds ]D MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES
.if '\\$2'1' .ds ]D PSI COMMANDS FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'2' .ds ]D PSI COMMON INPUT FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'3' .ds ]D PSI PROCEDURES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'4' .ds ]D PSI EXAMPLES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'5' .ds ]D PSI LIBRARY
.if !'\\$4''  .ds ]W \\$4
.if !'\\$5''  .ds ]D \\$5
.wh 0 }H
.if t .wh -1i }F
.if n .wh -1.167i }F
.em }M
.if !\\n(nl .if !\\nP .nr P 1
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .pn \\nP
.if \\nX .if \\nP>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\nP
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0 \}
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .nr P 0
.if  \\nC .if \\n(nl .bp
.if  !\\nC .if \\n(nl .bp 1
.ds ]L Last change: \\$3
.}E
.DT
.nr )I .5i
.nr )R 0
.  \".if n .na
.mk ka
.if !'\\n(ka'-1' .bp
..
'	# IX - Make an Index Entry
.de IX
.if \\nF .tm .IE\tENTRY\t\\$1\t\\$2\t\\$3\t\\$4\t\\$5\t\\$6\t\\*(PN\\n%
..
'	# TX - Resolve a Title Reference
.de TX
.ds Tx "UNKNOWN TITLE ABBREVIATION: \\$1
.if '\\$1'GSBG' .ds Tx "Getting Started 
.if '\\$1'SUBG' .ds Tx "Customizing SunOS
.if '\\$1'SHBG' .ds Tx "Basic Troubleshooting
.if '\\$1'SVBG' .ds Tx "SunView User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MMBG' .ds Tx "Mail and Messages
.if '\\$1'DMBG' .ds Tx "Doing More with SunOS
.if '\\$1'UNBG' .ds Tx "Using the Network
.if '\\$1'GDBG' .ds Tx "Games, Demos & Other Pursuits
.if '\\$1'CHANGE' .ds Tx "SunOS 4.1 Release Manual
.if '\\$1'INSTALL' .ds Tx "Installing SunOS 4.1
.if '\\$1'ADMIN' .ds Tx "System and Network Administration
.if '\\$1'SECUR' .ds Tx "Security Features Guide
.if '\\$1'PROM' .ds Tx "PROM User's Manual
.if '\\$1'DIAG' .ds Tx "Sun System Diagnostics
.if '\\$1'SUNDIAG' .ds Tx "Sundiag User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MANPAGES' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'REFMAN' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'SSI' .ds Tx "Sun System Introduction
.if '\\$1'SSO' .ds Tx "System Services Overview
.if '\\$1'TEXT' .ds Tx "Editing Text Files
.if '\\$1'DOCS' .ds Tx "Formatting Documents
.if '\\$1'TROFF' .ds Tx "Using \&\fBnroff\fP and \&\fBtroff\fP
.if '\\$1'INDEX' .ds Tx "Global Index
.if '\\$1'CPG' .ds Tx "C Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'CREF' .ds Tx "C Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'ASSY' .ds Tx "Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'PUL' .ds Tx "Programming Utilities and Libraries
.if '\\$1'DEBUG' .ds Tx "Debugging Tools
.if '\\$1'NETP' .ds Tx "Network Programming
.if '\\$1'DRIVER' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers
.if '\\$1'STREAMS' .ds Tx "STREAMS Programming
.if '\\$1'SBDK' .ds Tx "SBus Developer's Kit
.if '\\$1'WDDS' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers for the SBus
.if '\\$1'FPOINT' .ds Tx "Floating-Point Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVSPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 System Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'PIXRCT' .ds Tx "Pixrect Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CGI' .ds Tx "SunCGI Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CORE' .ds Tx "SunCore Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'4ASSY' .ds Tx "Sun-4 Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'SARCH' .ds Tx "\s-1SPARC\s0 Architecture Manual
.	# non-Sun titles
.if '\\$1'KR' .ds Tx "The C Programming Language
\fI\\*(Tx\fP\\$2
..
'	# section heading
.de SH
.}X 0
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
..
'   # sub section heading
.de SS
.}X .25i "" ""
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
.br
..
'	# subroutine for section heading
.de }X
.}E
.ti \\$1
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.nr )R 0
.fi
.it 1 }N
.SM
.B
..
'	# end of SH (cf }X above and }N below)
.de }2
.nr )E 0
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# italic
.de I
.ft 2
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# bold
.de B
.ft 3
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# small
.de SM
.ps 9
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# combinations of Roman, italic, bold
.de RI
.}S 1 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de VS
'if '\\$1'4' .mc \s12\(br\s0
..
.de VE
'mc
..
.de RB
.}S 1 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IR
.}S 2 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IB
.}S 2 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BR
.}S 3 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BI
.}S 3 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
'	# make special case of shift out of italic
.de }S
.ds ]F
.if "\\$1"2" .if !"\\$5"" .ds ]F\^
.ie !"\\$4"" .}S \\$2 \\$1 "\\$3\f\\$1\\$4\\*(]F" "\\$5" "\\$6" "\\$7" "\\$8" "\\$9"
.el \\$3
.}f
..
'	# small and boldface
.de SB
\&\fB\s-1\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6\s0\fR
..
'	# paragraph
.de LP
.PP
..
.de PP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# paragraph distance
.de PD
.if t .nr )P .4v
.if n .nr )P 1v
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )P \\$1v
..
'	# hanging indent
.de HP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.}f
..
'	# indented paragraph
.de IP
.TP \\$2
\&\\$1
..
'	# hanging label
.de TP
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.sp \\n()Pu
.in \\n()Ru
.nr )E 1
.ns
.it 1 }N
.di ]B
..
'	# end of TP (cf }N below)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
'	# handle end of 1-line features
.de }N
.if \\n()E .br
.di
.if "\\n()E"0" .}f
.if "\\n()E"1" .}1
.if "\\n()E"2" .}2
.nr )E 0
..
'	# increase relative indent
.de RS
.nr ]\\n+()p \\n()I
.nr )\\n()p \\n()R
.ie !"\\$1"" .nr )R +\\$1n
.el .nr )R +\\n()I
.nr )I .5i
.}E
..
'	# decrease relative indent
.de RE
.if !"\\$1"" \{.ie "\\$1"0" .nr )p 1 1
.		el .nr )p \\$1 1\}
.ds ]i \\*(]I\\n()p
.ds ]r \\*(]R\\n()p
.nr )I \\*(]i
.nr )R \\*(]r
.if \\n()p .nr )p -1
.}E
..
.nr )p 0 1
.ds ]I \\\\n(]
.ds ]R \\\\n()
.bd S 3 3
.if t .ds R \(rg
.if n .ds R (Reg.)
.ds S \s10
.hy 14

.if !'\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(Lv \*(OS USERS
..
.if '\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(OS USERS
..

.ds ]W Psi Release 2.0

.\" This is used to ignore blanks on a line
.\" Its purpose is to make the troff input look prettier.
.de __
\\$1
..

.\" Start List
.de sL                  \" .sL: start an optional list
.di dL
.LP   \" This resets some things, apparently
.nf
..

.\" End List
.de eL                  \" .eL: end an optional list under heading $1
.di
.fi
.\" The number 40 on the following line must be change if sL or eL are changed
.if \\n(dn>40  \{\
.\"SH \\$1 -- \\n(dn \" Use this line for debugging
.SH \\$1
.nf
.dL
.fi
.\}
..

.\" The input skip string, used to space headings.
.ds sS \0\0\0\0\0\0\0

.\" Input Section Header
.iS
.de iS
.LP
.nf
\\$1
.fi
..

.\" Input Line
.de iL
.IP "\\$1" 7
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option
.de iO
.IP "\\*(sS\\$1" 14
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option Value
.de iV
.IP "\\*(sS\\*(sS\\$1" 21
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Start CMS
.de sC
.if !'\\*(OS'CMS' .ig eC
..
.\" End Advanced with .eC

.\" Start UNIX
.de sU
.if !'\\*(OS'UNIX' .ig eU
..
.\" End Advanced with .eU

.\" Start Advanced
.de sA
.if !'\\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig eA
..
.\" End Advanced with .eA

.\" Start Beginner
.de sB
.if !'\\*(Lv'' .ig eB
..
.\" End Beginner with .eB

.\" Psi Name
.de pN                  \" .pN: convert a generic file name to a specific name
.ta 2.5in
.if '\*(OS'CMS' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO             \" Unix only
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO BASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO PBASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN'  .ds pO HVIB15
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO FILE15
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO FILE91
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO FILE92
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
.if '\*(OS'UNIX' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'INPUT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'LMO' .ds pO lmo.dat
. if '\\$1'CONTOUR' .ds pO contour.ps
. if '\\$1'CMO' .ds pO cmo.dat
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO basis.dat
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO pbasis.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL1' .ds pO resul1.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL2' .ds pO resul2.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL3' .ds pO             \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'SLOFILE' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'INTDERO' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'MAKEFT' .ds pO resul3.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDER1' .ds pO intder1.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDIFO' .ds pO intdifo.dat
. if '\\$1'IDER'   .ds pO ider.dat
. if '\\$1'OPDM48' .ds pO file51.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12A' .ds pO file12a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16A' .ds pO file16a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21A' .ds pO file21a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE11' .ds pO file11.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12' .ds pO file12.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE13' .ds pO file13.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE14' .ds pO file14.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL15' .ds pO total15.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL20' .ds pO total20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE15' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE17' .ds pO file17.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE18' .ds pO file18.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE19' .ds pO file19.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE20' .ds pO file20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21' .ds pO file21.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE22' .ds pO file22.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE23' .ds pO file23.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE24' .ds pO file24.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE25' .ds pO file25.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO file91a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO file92a.dat
. if '\\$1'CHECK' .ds pO tape3.dat
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO output.dat\" Unix only
. if '\\$1'FILE6' .ds pO              \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'BMAT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'INTCO' .ds pO intco.dat
. if '\\$1'GEOM' .ds pO geom.dat
. if '\\$1'FCONST' .ds pO fconst.dat
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
..                      \" End of .pN macro definition

.TH cceg 1 "20 May, 1991" "\*(]W" "\*(]D"
.SH NAME
cceg \- compute the coupled cluster energy and wavefunction

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The program
.B cceg
is used to compute the coupled cluster energy and wavefunction for
atoms and molecules with a closed shell reference state.
Energies for
CCD, CCSD, CCSDT1, and CCSD(T) wavefunctions can be computed.

.LP
If a high spin open shell reference wavefunction is desired, then either the
.B oscc
or the
.B oscc3
program must be used.  If full CCSDT is needed, then
the
.B fcceg
program must be used.  If an energy calculation on a
very large molecule is needed, then use
.BR lcceg .

.SH REFERENCES
.LP
CCSD energy:
.IP "1."
G.E.Scuseria, A.C.Scheiner, T.J.Lee, J.E.Rice and H.F.Schaefer,
J. Chem. Phys. 86, 2881 (1986).
.IP "2."
G.E.Scuseria, C.L.Janssen and H.F.Schaefer,
J. Chem. Phys. 89, 7382 (1988).

.LP
CCSD energy gradient
.IP "1."
A.C.Scheiner, G.E.Scuseria, J.E.Rice, T.J.Lee and H.F.Schaefer,
J. Chem. Phys. 87, 5361 (1987).

.LP
CCSDT-1 energy and gradient
.IP "1."
G.E.Scuseria and H.F.Schaefer,
Chem. Phys. Lett. 146, 23 (1988).

.LP
CCSD(T) closed-shell energy
.IP "1."
G.E. Scuseria and T.J. Lee
J. Chem. Phys. 93, 5851 (1990).

.LP
CCSD(T) closed-shell gradient:
.IP "1."
G.E. Scuseria
J. Chem. Phys. 94, 442 (1991).


.sL
.pN INPUT
.eL "FILES REQUIRED"

.sL
.pN OUTPUT
.eL "FILES UPDATED"

.sL
.pN CHECK
.pN FILE6
.eL "FILES GENERATED"

.SH INPUT FORMAT
.LP
The
.B cceg
program
searches through the default keyword path (first
.B CCEG
and then
.BR DEFAULT )
for the following keywords:

.IP "\fBLABEL =\fP \fIstring\fP"
A character string to be included in the output.  This string is not
used by the program.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBSYMMETRY =\fP \fIstring\fP"
The point group of the molecule as is described in the \fBinput\fP program
manual pages.  There is no default.

.IP "\fBWFN =\fP \fIstring\fP"
The type of correlation energy calculation.  This must be one of
.B CCSD
(coupled cluster with single and double excitations from the reference),
.B CCD
(coupled cluster with double excitations),
.B CCSDT1
(CCSDT-1),
and
.B CCSD_T
(CCSD(T)).
The CCSDT-1 method is not recommended.  The CCSD(T) method should
be used if the effects of triples are desired.  Also supported
for debugging purposes are the values
.B CC_CISD
and
.BR CC_BOTH .
There is no default.

.IP "\fBDERTYPE =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This must be set to
.B NONE
or
.BR FIRST .
If coupled cluster gradients are desired then this parameter must
be set to
.BR FIRST .
The default is
.BR NONE .

.IP "\fBFROZEN_DOCC =\fP \fIinteger_vector\fP"
The number of lowest energy doubly occupied orbitals in each irreducible
representation from which there will be no excitations.
The Cotton ordering of the irredicible representations is used.
The default is the zero vector.

.IP "\fBFROZEN_UOCC =\fP \fIinteger_vector\fP"
The number of highest energy unoccupied orbitals in each irreducible
representation into which there will be no excitations.
The default is the zero vector.

.IP "\fBNCSF =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
The number of cluster coefficients to print out. The
default is 20.

.IP "\fBMAXITER =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
The maximum number of iterations. The default is 20
for \fBDERTYPE = NONE\fP and 30 for \fBDERTYPE = FIRST\fP.

.IP "\fBCONVERGENCE =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
The convergence criterion is 10**(\-\fIinteger\fP).  The default is 7
for \fBDERTYPE = NONE\fP and 10 for \fBDERTYPE = FIRST\fP.

.IP "\fBRESTART =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
The calculation will restart from the old wavefunction
if \fIboolean\fP is true.  Possible values
for this parameter are
.BR TRUE ,
.BR YES ,
.BR 1 ,
.BR FALSE ,
.BR NO ,
and
.BR 0 .
The default is false.

.IP "\fBT_RESTART =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
The calculation will restart a calculation including triples
excitations in the middle of an iteration
if \fIboolean\fP is true.  Possible values
for this parameter are
.BR TRUE ,
.BR YES ,
.BR 1 ,
.BR FALSE ,
.BR NO ,
and
.BR 0 .
The default is false.

.LP
There are also parameters for controlling DIIS, however, these
these are unneccessary for the normal use of Psi.

.LP
The occupancies of the orbitals in the reference is not read from
the input.  The
.B cceg
program obtaines this information from
.pN FILE30 .

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
This is a sample input for a CCSD calculation in
.if n C2V
.if t C\s-1\d2v\u\s0
symmetry
with the lowest energy totally symmetric orbital frozen:

.DS
  default: (
    label = "C2V test case -- one frozen core orbital"
    symmetry = c2v
    wfn = ccsd
    frozen_docc = (1 0 0 0)
    frozen_uocc = (0 0 0 0)
    )
.DE

.LP
It will be almost never be necessary to include more input parameters than
are shown in the above example.

.LP
An example of a large calculation with
restart and a small tolerance for error in the wavefunction:

.DS
  default: (
    label = "C2V test case -- three frozen core orbitals"
    symmetry = c2v
    wfn = ccsd
    dertype = first
    frozen_docc = (2 0 1 0)
    frozen_uocc = (0 0 0 0)
    )

  cceg: (
    memory = (24.0 MB)
    restart = yes
    convergence = 12
    )
.DE

