
.ds OS UNIX

.\"     @(#)tmac.an 1.37 90/02/04 SMI;
.ds ]W Psi Release 1.1
'	# month name
.  \".if "\nd"0" .nr m \n(mo-1
.  \".if "\nm"0" .ds ]m January
.  \".if "\nm"1" .ds ]m February
.  \".if "\nm"2" .ds ]m March
.  \".if "\nm"3" .ds ]m April
.  \".if "\nm"4" .ds ]m May
.  \".if "\nm"5" .ds ]m June
.  \".if "\nm"6" .ds ]m July
.  \".if "\nm"7" .ds ]m August
.  \".if "\nm"8" .ds ]m September
.  \".if "\nm"9" .ds ]m October
.  \".if "\nm"10" .ds ]m November
.  \".if "\nm"11" .ds ]m December
'	# set the date
.  \".if n \{.nr m \nm+1
.  \".	 ie \nd .ds ]W Modified \nm/\nd/\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W Printed \n(mo/\n(dy/\n(yr\}
.  \".if t \{.ie \nd .ds ]W \*(]m \nd, 19\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W \*(]m \n(dy, 19\n(yr\}
'	# end of commented out chunk
.if t .tr *\(**
.ie n \{\
.	ds lq \&"\"
.	ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.	ds rq ''
.	ds lq ``
.\}
.de UC
.  \".if t \{\
.  \".	ie "\\$1"" .ds ]W 3rd Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	ie "\\$1"4" .ds ]W \\$1th Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	el .ds ]w \\$2 \\$1 BSD
.  \".\}
..
'	# reset the basic page layout
.de }E
.}f
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.ll \\n(LLu
..
'	# default tabs
.de DT
'ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i 6i 6.5i
..
'	# set type font and size
.de }f
.ps 10
.ft 1
..
'	# handle the head of the page
.de }H
.ev 1
.}C
'sp .5i
.ft 1
.ps 10
.tl \\*(]H\\*(]D\\*(]H
'sp .5i
.ev
.ns
..
'	# handle the foot of the page
.de }F
.ev 1
.ft 1
.ps 10
'sp .5i
.if !\\nD .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if o .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if e .tl \\*(PN%\\*(]L\\*(]W
.if !\\nX 'bp
.if \\nX .if \\n%>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\n%
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0
'bp 1\}
.if \\nX .if \\n%<\\nX 'bp
.ev
..
'	# the cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".if n .ig
.  \".de }C
.  \".po .1i
.  \".tl '-'
.  \".po
.  \"..
'	# the final cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".de }M
.  \".}N
.  \".wh -1p }C
.  \".ll \\n(LLu
.  \"..
'	# no runout unless there was a .TH
.de }K
.}N
.pl 1
.ll \\n(LLu
..
.em }K
'	# set title and heading
.de TH
.PD
.DT
.if n .nr IN .5i
.if t .nr IN .5i
.ll 6.5i
.nr LL \\n(.l
.ds ]H \\$1\|(\|\\$2\|)
.ds ]D MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES
.if '\\$2'1' .ds ]D PSI COMMANDS FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'2' .ds ]D PSI COMMON INPUT FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'3' .ds ]D PSI PROCEDURES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'4' .ds ]D PSI EXAMPLES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'5' .ds ]D PSI LIBRARY
.if !'\\$4''  .ds ]W \\$4
.if !'\\$5''  .ds ]D \\$5
.wh 0 }H
.if t .wh -1i }F
.if n .wh -1.167i }F
.em }M
.if !\\n(nl .if !\\nP .nr P 1
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .pn \\nP
.if \\nX .if \\nP>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\nP
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0 \}
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .nr P 0
.if  \\nC .if \\n(nl .bp
.if  !\\nC .if \\n(nl .bp 1
.ds ]L Last change: \\$3
.}E
.DT
.nr )I .5i
.nr )R 0
.  \".if n .na
.mk ka
.if !'\\n(ka'-1' .bp
..
'	# IX - Make an Index Entry
.de IX
.if \\nF .tm .IE\tENTRY\t\\$1\t\\$2\t\\$3\t\\$4\t\\$5\t\\$6\t\\*(PN\\n%
..
'	# TX - Resolve a Title Reference
.de TX
.ds Tx "UNKNOWN TITLE ABBREVIATION: \\$1
.if '\\$1'GSBG' .ds Tx "Getting Started 
.if '\\$1'SUBG' .ds Tx "Customizing SunOS
.if '\\$1'SHBG' .ds Tx "Basic Troubleshooting
.if '\\$1'SVBG' .ds Tx "SunView User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MMBG' .ds Tx "Mail and Messages
.if '\\$1'DMBG' .ds Tx "Doing More with SunOS
.if '\\$1'UNBG' .ds Tx "Using the Network
.if '\\$1'GDBG' .ds Tx "Games, Demos & Other Pursuits
.if '\\$1'CHANGE' .ds Tx "SunOS 4.1 Release Manual
.if '\\$1'INSTALL' .ds Tx "Installing SunOS 4.1
.if '\\$1'ADMIN' .ds Tx "System and Network Administration
.if '\\$1'SECUR' .ds Tx "Security Features Guide
.if '\\$1'PROM' .ds Tx "PROM User's Manual
.if '\\$1'DIAG' .ds Tx "Sun System Diagnostics
.if '\\$1'SUNDIAG' .ds Tx "Sundiag User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MANPAGES' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'REFMAN' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'SSI' .ds Tx "Sun System Introduction
.if '\\$1'SSO' .ds Tx "System Services Overview
.if '\\$1'TEXT' .ds Tx "Editing Text Files
.if '\\$1'DOCS' .ds Tx "Formatting Documents
.if '\\$1'TROFF' .ds Tx "Using \&\fBnroff\fP and \&\fBtroff\fP
.if '\\$1'INDEX' .ds Tx "Global Index
.if '\\$1'CPG' .ds Tx "C Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'CREF' .ds Tx "C Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'ASSY' .ds Tx "Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'PUL' .ds Tx "Programming Utilities and Libraries
.if '\\$1'DEBUG' .ds Tx "Debugging Tools
.if '\\$1'NETP' .ds Tx "Network Programming
.if '\\$1'DRIVER' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers
.if '\\$1'STREAMS' .ds Tx "STREAMS Programming
.if '\\$1'SBDK' .ds Tx "SBus Developer's Kit
.if '\\$1'WDDS' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers for the SBus
.if '\\$1'FPOINT' .ds Tx "Floating-Point Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVSPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 System Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'PIXRCT' .ds Tx "Pixrect Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CGI' .ds Tx "SunCGI Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CORE' .ds Tx "SunCore Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'4ASSY' .ds Tx "Sun-4 Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'SARCH' .ds Tx "\s-1SPARC\s0 Architecture Manual
.	# non-Sun titles
.if '\\$1'KR' .ds Tx "The C Programming Language
\fI\\*(Tx\fP\\$2
..
'	# section heading
.de SH
.}X 0
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
..
'   # sub section heading
.de SS
.}X .25i "" ""
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
.br
..
'	# subroutine for section heading
.de }X
.}E
.ti \\$1
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.nr )R 0
.fi
.it 1 }N
.SM
.B
..
'	# end of SH (cf }X above and }N below)
.de }2
.nr )E 0
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# italic
.de I
.ft 2
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# bold
.de B
.ft 3
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# small
.de SM
.ps 9
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# combinations of Roman, italic, bold
.de RI
.}S 1 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de VS
'if '\\$1'4' .mc \s12\(br\s0
..
.de VE
'mc
..
.de RB
.}S 1 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IR
.}S 2 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IB
.}S 2 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BR
.}S 3 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BI
.}S 3 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
'	# make special case of shift out of italic
.de }S
.ds ]F
.if "\\$1"2" .if !"\\$5"" .ds ]F\^
.ie !"\\$4"" .}S \\$2 \\$1 "\\$3\f\\$1\\$4\\*(]F" "\\$5" "\\$6" "\\$7" "\\$8" "\\$9"
.el \\$3
.}f
..
'	# small and boldface
.de SB
\&\fB\s-1\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6\s0\fR
..
'	# paragraph
.de LP
.PP
..
.de PP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# paragraph distance
.de PD
.if t .nr )P .4v
.if n .nr )P 1v
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )P \\$1v
..
'	# hanging indent
.de HP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.}f
..
'	# indented paragraph
.de IP
.TP \\$2
\&\\$1
..
'	# hanging label
.de TP
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.sp \\n()Pu
.in \\n()Ru
.nr )E 1
.ns
.it 1 }N
.di ]B
..
'	# end of TP (cf }N below)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
'	# handle end of 1-line features
.de }N
.if \\n()E .br
.di
.if "\\n()E"0" .}f
.if "\\n()E"1" .}1
.if "\\n()E"2" .}2
.nr )E 0
..
'	# increase relative indent
.de RS
.nr ]\\n+()p \\n()I
.nr )\\n()p \\n()R
.ie !"\\$1"" .nr )R +\\$1n
.el .nr )R +\\n()I
.nr )I .5i
.}E
..
'	# decrease relative indent
.de RE
.if !"\\$1"" \{.ie "\\$1"0" .nr )p 1 1
.		el .nr )p \\$1 1\}
.ds ]i \\*(]I\\n()p
.ds ]r \\*(]R\\n()p
.nr )I \\*(]i
.nr )R \\*(]r
.if \\n()p .nr )p -1
.}E
..
.nr )p 0 1
.ds ]I \\\\n(]
.ds ]R \\\\n()
.bd S 3 3
.if t .ds R \(rg
.if n .ds R (Reg.)
.ds S \s10
.hy 14

.if !'\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(Lv \*(OS USERS
..
.if '\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(OS USERS
..

.ds ]W Psi Release 2.0

.\" This is used to ignore blanks on a line
.\" Its purpose is to make the troff input look prettier.
.de __
\\$1
..

.\" Start List
.de sL                  \" .sL: start an optional list
.di dL
.LP   \" This resets some things, apparently
.nf
..

.\" End List
.de eL                  \" .eL: end an optional list under heading $1
.di
.fi
.\" The number 40 on the following line must be change if sL or eL are changed
.if \\n(dn>40  \{\
.\"SH \\$1 -- \\n(dn \" Use this line for debugging
.SH \\$1
.nf
.dL
.fi
.\}
..

.\" The input skip string, used to space headings.
.ds sS \0\0\0\0\0\0\0

.\" Input Section Header
.iS
.de iS
.LP
.nf
\\$1
.fi
..

.\" Input Line
.de iL
.IP "\\$1" 7
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option
.de iO
.IP "\\*(sS\\$1" 14
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option Value
.de iV
.IP "\\*(sS\\*(sS\\$1" 21
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Start CMS
.de sC
.if !'\\*(OS'CMS' .ig eC
..
.\" End Advanced with .eC

.\" Start UNIX
.de sU
.if !'\\*(OS'UNIX' .ig eU
..
.\" End Advanced with .eU

.\" Start Advanced
.de sA
.if !'\\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig eA
..
.\" End Advanced with .eA

.\" Start Beginner
.de sB
.if !'\\*(Lv'' .ig eB
..
.\" End Beginner with .eB

.\" Psi Name
.de pN                  \" .pN: convert a generic file name to a specific name
.ta 2.5in
.if '\*(OS'CMS' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO             \" Unix only
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO BASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO PBASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN'  .ds pO HVIB15
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO FILE15
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO FILE91
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO FILE92
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
.if '\*(OS'UNIX' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'INPUT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'LMO' .ds pO lmo.dat
. if '\\$1'CONTOUR' .ds pO contour.ps
. if '\\$1'CMO' .ds pO cmo.dat
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO basis.dat
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO pbasis.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL1' .ds pO resul1.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL2' .ds pO resul2.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL3' .ds pO             \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'SLOFILE' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'INTDERO' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'MAKEFT' .ds pO resul3.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDER1' .ds pO intder1.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDIFO' .ds pO intdifo.dat
. if '\\$1'IDER'   .ds pO ider.dat
. if '\\$1'OPDM48' .ds pO file51.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12A' .ds pO file12a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16A' .ds pO file16a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21A' .ds pO file21a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE11' .ds pO file11.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12' .ds pO file12.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE13' .ds pO file13.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE14' .ds pO file14.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL15' .ds pO total15.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL20' .ds pO total20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE15' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE17' .ds pO file17.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE18' .ds pO file18.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE19' .ds pO file19.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE20' .ds pO file20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21' .ds pO file21.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE22' .ds pO file22.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE23' .ds pO file23.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE24' .ds pO file24.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE25' .ds pO file25.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO file91a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO file92a.dat
. if '\\$1'CHECK' .ds pO tape3.dat
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO output.dat\" Unix only
. if '\\$1'FILE6' .ds pO              \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'BMAT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'INTCO' .ds pO intco.dat
. if '\\$1'GEOM' .ds pO geom.dat
. if '\\$1'FCONST' .ds pO fconst.dat
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
..                      \" End of .pN macro definition

.TH drt 1 "3 Febuary, 1995" "\*(]W" "\*(]D"
.SH NAME
drt \- distinct row table program

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The command
.B drt
is the
distinct row table program for the shape driven
graphical unitary group approach (GUGA) configuration
interation (CI) system of programs.
This program will read a flexible input format of orbital codes,
rearrange the orbitals to a form suitable for the CI and generate
all the arrays needed to describe the CI calculation and the
integral storage.
The
.B gugaci
program can handle arbitrary reference sets, arbitrary
excitation levels, and reference sets such as triples in a selected
space and, say, singles outside that space.  There is essentially no
limit to the total number of unpaired electrons, orbitals or
configurations except for the computer time available.

.SH REFERENCES
.IP "1."
J. Paldus, J. Chem. Phys. 61 (1974) 5321.
.IP "2."
I. Shavitt, Int. J. Quantum Chem. Symp. 11 (1977) 131; 12 (1978) 5
.LP
References for interacting configurations:
.IP "1."
A. Bunge, J. Chem. Phys. 53 (1970) 20.
.IP "2."
C. F. Bender and H. F. Schaefer, J. Chem. Phys. 55 (1971) 4798.

.sL
.pN INPUT  
.pN FILE30
.pN FILE34
.eL "FILES REQUIRED"

.sL
.pN OUTPUT
.eL "FILES UPDATED"

.sL
.pN CHECK
.pN FILE6
.pN FILE58
.eL "FILES GENERATED"

.SH INPUT FORMAT
.LP
The
.B drt
program
searches through the default keyword path (first
.B DRT
and then
.BR DEFAULT )
for the following keywords:


.IP "\fBLABEL =\fP \fIstring\fP"
Title for DRT output (for print out only).  There is no default.

.IP "\fBEX_LVL =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Excitation level for excitations into virtual
orbitals (default 2, i.e. CISD)
.IP
IMPORTANT: If this option is set > 2 then the LOOPDRVN flag for use by
.B gugaci
must be true.  

.IP "\fBWFN =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This is the type of wavefunction which is ultimately desired.
The default is
.BR CI .

.IP "\fBDERTYPE =\fP \fIstring\fP"
The derivative type desired.  The default is none.

.IP "\fBOPENTYPE =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This specifies the state desired.  It can be one of
.B NONE
(for a closed shell singlet),
.B SINGLET
(for an open shell singlet with two singly occupied orbitals of
different irreducible representations),
.B HIGHSPIN
(for any high spin open shell system), or
.B TWOCON
(for a two configuration singlet).
The default is NONE.
.IP 
IMPORTANT:  If VAL_EX_LVL > 0 or NUM_REFS > 1
then OPENTYPE cannot be TWOCON.

.IP "\fBDOCC =\fP \fIinteger_array\fP"
This vector gives the number of doubly occupied orbitals in each irrep.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBSOCC =\fP \fIinteger_array\fP"
This vector gives the number of singly occupied orbitals in each irrep.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBFROZEN_DOCC =\fP \fIinteger_array\fP"
The number of lowest energy doubly occupied orbitals in each irreducible
representation from which there will be no excitations.
The Cotton ordering of the irredicible representations is used.
The default is the zero vector.

.IP "\fBFROZEN_UOCC =\fP \fIinteger_vector\fP"
The number of highest energy unoccupied orbitals in each irreducible
representation into which there will be no excitations.
The default is the zero vector.

.LP
Note,
.B drt
needs orbital information from 
.pN FILE30
and
.pN FILE34 .
If you wish to run
.B drt
simply to determine the number of CSFs in your wavefucntion, there
are two options available to you:
1) Explicitly enter the number of basis functions with the NBASIS
keyword, and the number of unoccupied orbitals with the UOCC vector
(see below). 
2) Run
.B input
and then
.B ints
, first setting the MK_1EI and MK_2EI keywords to FALSE.  Doing this
will generate
.pN FILE30
and will write the necessary orbital information to 
.pN FILE34
without calculating any integrals. See ints(1) for more information.


.\" ---------------------------------------- Uncommonly used input here:
.LP
There is also some less commonly used input, which novice uses of Psi
will have no need to use.

.IP "\fBIPRINT =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Printing option (powers of two).  Default is 0.
.  iV               "= 1"  "print DRT"
.  iV               "= 2"  "print external weight arrays"
.  iV               "= 4"  "print integral pointer arrays"
.  iV               "= 8"
.  iV               "= 16"
.  iV               "= 32"
.iL

.IP "\fBBLOCKSIZE =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Integral block size desired, in hundreds.  This may be necessary if
.B trans
aborts with the message "BLKSZ TOO SMALL".
The default is 300.

.IP "\fBVAL_EX_LVL =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Excitation level for references in orbitals
specified by the VAL_OCC vector.

.IP "\fBVAL_ORB =\fP \fIinteger_array\fP"
The number of valence excitation orbitals in each irreducible representation.
If VAL_ORB(i) <= NVALOC=DOCC(i)+SOCC(i)-FROZEN_DOCC(i), then the VALORB(i)
highest lying occupied MO's are considered to be the valence excitation 
orbitals in the i'th irrep.  If VAL_ORB(i) > NVALOC, then all NVALOC
occupied MOs are considered to be valence excitation orbitals, as well as
the VAL_ORB(i)-NVALOC lowest lying unoccupied MOs.  If you wish to override
this behavior, then you must use the PSI version 1.1 input format.

.IP "\fBINT_SPC =\fP \fIstring\fP"
Interacting configurations only (default is ON
for one reference and valence excitation orbitals, OFF for multireference)
.  iV               "= OFF"
turn off limitation to spin interacting
space (default for multi-reference).
.  iV               "= SYM"
limit valence references to those of
the same symmetry as the one reference.
.  iV               "= FULLSPIN"
symmetry limit the valence references but
use full spin-space.
.iL

.IP "\fBNBASIS =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
If 
.pN FILE30
is not available, then the number of basis functions must be given.  There
is no default.

.IP "\fBNIRREPS =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Normally, the number of irreducible representations is infered from the 
length of the DOCC or SOCC vectors.  NIRREPS can be used to override the
default.  This is not recommended, however.

.IP "\fBUOCC =\fP \fIinteger_array\fP"
If 
.pN FILE34
is not available, then this vector gives the number of virtual orbitals
in each irreducible representation.

.IP "\fBNUM_REFS =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Number of references.  Default is 1.
Note that TCSCF-CI is considered to be only one reference.

.IP "\fBMULTI_ORBS =\fP \fIinteger_array\fP"
This vector gives the numbers of those orbitals which differ in different
references.

.IP "\fBREFERENCES =\fP \fIstring_matrix\fP"
This is a vector of vectors consisting of orbital codes for 
those orbitals specified by the
MULTI_ORBS option.  There must be NUM_REFS of these specified, and each
vector must be the same length as the MULTI_ORBS vector.
Valid codes are DOC for doubly occupied orbitals, UOC for unoccupied
orbitals, ALP for alpha spin singly occupied orbitals, and BET for
beta spin singly occupied orbials.  It is important that the first
vector in this matrix matches the reference wavefunction.

.IP "\fB4_EXTERN =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
.  iV               "= FALSE"  "(default)"
.  iV               "= TRUE"  "use 4-external arrays in CI"

.IP "\fBFERMILVL =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
.  iV               "= 0"  "(default)"
.  iV               "= m"  "set fermi-level to m"
.iL

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following example is for a CISD calculation on water with one frozen core
orbital and one frozen virtual orbital:

.DS
drt: (
  docc = (3 0 1 1)
  frozen_docc = (1 0 0 0)
  frozen_uocc = (1 0 0 0)
  )
.DE

The following example is for a CISD calculation on triplet methylene:

.DS
drt: (
  opentype = highspin
  docc = (2 0 0 1)
  socc = (1 0 1 0)
  )
.DE

The following example is for a multireference CI for DZ singlet methylene
(in this example there are 8 A1, 0 A2, 2 B1, and 4 B2 orbitals, thus
orbitals 3 and 9 will be the open-shell orbitals):

.DS
drt: (
  num_refs = 3
  opentype = singlet
  docc = (2 0 0 1)
  socc = (1 0 1 0)
  multi_orbs = (3 9)
  references = ((alp bet)
                (doc uoc)
                (uoc doc))
  )
.DE

The following example is for a second-order CI (singles and doubles out of
a full valence CI) for triplet methylene:

.DS
drt: (
  opentype = highspin
  docc = (2 0 0 1)
  socc = (1 0 1 0)
  frozen_docc = (1 0 0 0)
  val_orb = (3 0 1 2)
  val_ex_lvl = 4
  int_spc = off
  )
.DE

The following example is for a multireference CI (singles and doubles out of
all valence singles and doubles) for open-shell singlet methylene:

.DS
drt: (
  opentype = singlet
  docc = (2 0 0 1)
  socc = (1 0 1 0)
  frozen_docc = (1 0 0 0)
  val_orb = (3 0 1 2)
  val_ex_lvl = 2
  int_spc = off
  )
.DE
