
.ds OS UNIX

.\"     @(#)tmac.an 1.37 90/02/04 SMI;
.ds ]W Psi Release 1.1
'	# month name
.  \".if "\nd"0" .nr m \n(mo-1
.  \".if "\nm"0" .ds ]m January
.  \".if "\nm"1" .ds ]m February
.  \".if "\nm"2" .ds ]m March
.  \".if "\nm"3" .ds ]m April
.  \".if "\nm"4" .ds ]m May
.  \".if "\nm"5" .ds ]m June
.  \".if "\nm"6" .ds ]m July
.  \".if "\nm"7" .ds ]m August
.  \".if "\nm"8" .ds ]m September
.  \".if "\nm"9" .ds ]m October
.  \".if "\nm"10" .ds ]m November
.  \".if "\nm"11" .ds ]m December
'	# set the date
.  \".if n \{.nr m \nm+1
.  \".	 ie \nd .ds ]W Modified \nm/\nd/\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W Printed \n(mo/\n(dy/\n(yr\}
.  \".if t \{.ie \nd .ds ]W \*(]m \nd, 19\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W \*(]m \n(dy, 19\n(yr\}
'	# end of commented out chunk
.if t .tr *\(**
.ie n \{\
.	ds lq \&"\"
.	ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.	ds rq ''
.	ds lq ``
.\}
.de UC
.  \".if t \{\
.  \".	ie "\\$1"" .ds ]W 3rd Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	ie "\\$1"4" .ds ]W \\$1th Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	el .ds ]w \\$2 \\$1 BSD
.  \".\}
..
'	# reset the basic page layout
.de }E
.}f
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.ll \\n(LLu
..
'	# default tabs
.de DT
'ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i 6i 6.5i
..
'	# set type font and size
.de }f
.ps 10
.ft 1
..
'	# handle the head of the page
.de }H
.ev 1
.}C
'sp .5i
.ft 1
.ps 10
.tl \\*(]H\\*(]D\\*(]H
'sp .5i
.ev
.ns
..
'	# handle the foot of the page
.de }F
.ev 1
.ft 1
.ps 10
'sp .5i
.if !\\nD .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if o .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if e .tl \\*(PN%\\*(]L\\*(]W
.if !\\nX 'bp
.if \\nX .if \\n%>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\n%
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0
'bp 1\}
.if \\nX .if \\n%<\\nX 'bp
.ev
..
'	# the cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".if n .ig
.  \".de }C
.  \".po .1i
.  \".tl '-'
.  \".po
.  \"..
'	# the final cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".de }M
.  \".}N
.  \".wh -1p }C
.  \".ll \\n(LLu
.  \"..
'	# no runout unless there was a .TH
.de }K
.}N
.pl 1
.ll \\n(LLu
..
.em }K
'	# set title and heading
.de TH
.PD
.DT
.if n .nr IN .5i
.if t .nr IN .5i
.ll 6.5i
.nr LL \\n(.l
.ds ]H \\$1\|(\|\\$2\|)
.ds ]D MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES
.if '\\$2'1' .ds ]D PSI COMMANDS FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'2' .ds ]D PSI COMMON INPUT FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'3' .ds ]D PSI PROCEDURES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'4' .ds ]D PSI EXAMPLES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'5' .ds ]D PSI LIBRARY
.if !'\\$4''  .ds ]W \\$4
.if !'\\$5''  .ds ]D \\$5
.wh 0 }H
.if t .wh -1i }F
.if n .wh -1.167i }F
.em }M
.if !\\n(nl .if !\\nP .nr P 1
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .pn \\nP
.if \\nX .if \\nP>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\nP
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0 \}
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .nr P 0
.if  \\nC .if \\n(nl .bp
.if  !\\nC .if \\n(nl .bp 1
.ds ]L Last change: \\$3
.}E
.DT
.nr )I .5i
.nr )R 0
.  \".if n .na
.mk ka
.if !'\\n(ka'-1' .bp
..
'	# IX - Make an Index Entry
.de IX
.if \\nF .tm .IE\tENTRY\t\\$1\t\\$2\t\\$3\t\\$4\t\\$5\t\\$6\t\\*(PN\\n%
..
'	# TX - Resolve a Title Reference
.de TX
.ds Tx "UNKNOWN TITLE ABBREVIATION: \\$1
.if '\\$1'GSBG' .ds Tx "Getting Started 
.if '\\$1'SUBG' .ds Tx "Customizing SunOS
.if '\\$1'SHBG' .ds Tx "Basic Troubleshooting
.if '\\$1'SVBG' .ds Tx "SunView User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MMBG' .ds Tx "Mail and Messages
.if '\\$1'DMBG' .ds Tx "Doing More with SunOS
.if '\\$1'UNBG' .ds Tx "Using the Network
.if '\\$1'GDBG' .ds Tx "Games, Demos & Other Pursuits
.if '\\$1'CHANGE' .ds Tx "SunOS 4.1 Release Manual
.if '\\$1'INSTALL' .ds Tx "Installing SunOS 4.1
.if '\\$1'ADMIN' .ds Tx "System and Network Administration
.if '\\$1'SECUR' .ds Tx "Security Features Guide
.if '\\$1'PROM' .ds Tx "PROM User's Manual
.if '\\$1'DIAG' .ds Tx "Sun System Diagnostics
.if '\\$1'SUNDIAG' .ds Tx "Sundiag User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MANPAGES' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'REFMAN' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'SSI' .ds Tx "Sun System Introduction
.if '\\$1'SSO' .ds Tx "System Services Overview
.if '\\$1'TEXT' .ds Tx "Editing Text Files
.if '\\$1'DOCS' .ds Tx "Formatting Documents
.if '\\$1'TROFF' .ds Tx "Using \&\fBnroff\fP and \&\fBtroff\fP
.if '\\$1'INDEX' .ds Tx "Global Index
.if '\\$1'CPG' .ds Tx "C Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'CREF' .ds Tx "C Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'ASSY' .ds Tx "Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'PUL' .ds Tx "Programming Utilities and Libraries
.if '\\$1'DEBUG' .ds Tx "Debugging Tools
.if '\\$1'NETP' .ds Tx "Network Programming
.if '\\$1'DRIVER' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers
.if '\\$1'STREAMS' .ds Tx "STREAMS Programming
.if '\\$1'SBDK' .ds Tx "SBus Developer's Kit
.if '\\$1'WDDS' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers for the SBus
.if '\\$1'FPOINT' .ds Tx "Floating-Point Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVSPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 System Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'PIXRCT' .ds Tx "Pixrect Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CGI' .ds Tx "SunCGI Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CORE' .ds Tx "SunCore Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'4ASSY' .ds Tx "Sun-4 Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'SARCH' .ds Tx "\s-1SPARC\s0 Architecture Manual
.	# non-Sun titles
.if '\\$1'KR' .ds Tx "The C Programming Language
\fI\\*(Tx\fP\\$2
..
'	# section heading
.de SH
.}X 0
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
..
'   # sub section heading
.de SS
.}X .25i "" ""
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
.br
..
'	# subroutine for section heading
.de }X
.}E
.ti \\$1
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.nr )R 0
.fi
.it 1 }N
.SM
.B
..
'	# end of SH (cf }X above and }N below)
.de }2
.nr )E 0
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# italic
.de I
.ft 2
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# bold
.de B
.ft 3
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# small
.de SM
.ps 9
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# combinations of Roman, italic, bold
.de RI
.}S 1 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de VS
'if '\\$1'4' .mc \s12\(br\s0
..
.de VE
'mc
..
.de RB
.}S 1 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IR
.}S 2 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IB
.}S 2 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BR
.}S 3 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BI
.}S 3 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
'	# make special case of shift out of italic
.de }S
.ds ]F
.if "\\$1"2" .if !"\\$5"" .ds ]F\^
.ie !"\\$4"" .}S \\$2 \\$1 "\\$3\f\\$1\\$4\\*(]F" "\\$5" "\\$6" "\\$7" "\\$8" "\\$9"
.el \\$3
.}f
..
'	# small and boldface
.de SB
\&\fB\s-1\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6\s0\fR
..
'	# paragraph
.de LP
.PP
..
.de PP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# paragraph distance
.de PD
.if t .nr )P .4v
.if n .nr )P 1v
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )P \\$1v
..
'	# hanging indent
.de HP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.}f
..
'	# indented paragraph
.de IP
.TP \\$2
\&\\$1
..
'	# hanging label
.de TP
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.sp \\n()Pu
.in \\n()Ru
.nr )E 1
.ns
.it 1 }N
.di ]B
..
'	# end of TP (cf }N below)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
'	# handle end of 1-line features
.de }N
.if \\n()E .br
.di
.if "\\n()E"0" .}f
.if "\\n()E"1" .}1
.if "\\n()E"2" .}2
.nr )E 0
..
'	# increase relative indent
.de RS
.nr ]\\n+()p \\n()I
.nr )\\n()p \\n()R
.ie !"\\$1"" .nr )R +\\$1n
.el .nr )R +\\n()I
.nr )I .5i
.}E
..
'	# decrease relative indent
.de RE
.if !"\\$1"" \{.ie "\\$1"0" .nr )p 1 1
.		el .nr )p \\$1 1\}
.ds ]i \\*(]I\\n()p
.ds ]r \\*(]R\\n()p
.nr )I \\*(]i
.nr )R \\*(]r
.if \\n()p .nr )p -1
.}E
..
.nr )p 0 1
.ds ]I \\\\n(]
.ds ]R \\\\n()
.bd S 3 3
.if t .ds R \(rg
.if n .ds R (Reg.)
.ds S \s10
.hy 14

.if !'\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(Lv \*(OS USERS
..
.if '\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(OS USERS
..

.ds ]W Psi Release 2.0

.\" This is used to ignore blanks on a line
.\" Its purpose is to make the troff input look prettier.
.de __
\\$1
..

.\" Start List
.de sL                  \" .sL: start an optional list
.di dL
.LP   \" This resets some things, apparently
.nf
..

.\" End List
.de eL                  \" .eL: end an optional list under heading $1
.di
.fi
.\" The number 40 on the following line must be change if sL or eL are changed
.if \\n(dn>40  \{\
.\"SH \\$1 -- \\n(dn \" Use this line for debugging
.SH \\$1
.nf
.dL
.fi
.\}
..

.\" The input skip string, used to space headings.
.ds sS \0\0\0\0\0\0\0

.\" Input Section Header
.iS
.de iS
.LP
.nf
\\$1
.fi
..

.\" Input Line
.de iL
.IP "\\$1" 7
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option
.de iO
.IP "\\*(sS\\$1" 14
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option Value
.de iV
.IP "\\*(sS\\*(sS\\$1" 21
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Start CMS
.de sC
.if !'\\*(OS'CMS' .ig eC
..
.\" End Advanced with .eC

.\" Start UNIX
.de sU
.if !'\\*(OS'UNIX' .ig eU
..
.\" End Advanced with .eU

.\" Start Advanced
.de sA
.if !'\\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig eA
..
.\" End Advanced with .eA

.\" Start Beginner
.de sB
.if !'\\*(Lv'' .ig eB
..
.\" End Beginner with .eB

.\" Psi Name
.de pN                  \" .pN: convert a generic file name to a specific name
.ta 2.5in
.if '\*(OS'CMS' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO             \" Unix only
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO BASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO PBASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN'  .ds pO HVIB15
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO FILE15
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO FILE91
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO FILE92
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
.if '\*(OS'UNIX' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'INPUT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'LMO' .ds pO lmo.dat
. if '\\$1'CONTOUR' .ds pO contour.ps
. if '\\$1'CMO' .ds pO cmo.dat
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO basis.dat
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO pbasis.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL1' .ds pO resul1.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL2' .ds pO resul2.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL3' .ds pO             \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'SLOFILE' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'INTDERO' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'MAKEFT' .ds pO resul3.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDER1' .ds pO intder1.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDIFO' .ds pO intdifo.dat
. if '\\$1'IDER'   .ds pO ider.dat
. if '\\$1'OPDM48' .ds pO file51.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12A' .ds pO file12a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16A' .ds pO file16a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21A' .ds pO file21a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE11' .ds pO file11.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12' .ds pO file12.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE13' .ds pO file13.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE14' .ds pO file14.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL15' .ds pO total15.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL20' .ds pO total20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE15' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE17' .ds pO file17.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE18' .ds pO file18.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE19' .ds pO file19.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE20' .ds pO file20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21' .ds pO file21.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE22' .ds pO file22.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE23' .ds pO file23.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE24' .ds pO file24.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE25' .ds pO file25.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO file91a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO file92a.dat
. if '\\$1'CHECK' .ds pO tape3.dat
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO output.dat\" Unix only
. if '\\$1'FILE6' .ds pO              \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'BMAT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'INTCO' .ds pO intco.dat
. if '\\$1'GEOM' .ds pO geom.dat
. if '\\$1'FCONST' .ds pO fconst.dat
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
..                      \" End of .pN macro definition

.TH input 1 " 7 March, 1994" "Psi Release 2.0" "\*(]D"
.SH NAME
input \- initializes files prior to a run of Psi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The program
.B input
is a preliminary program which reads the input data for the
molecule (geometry, basis set, etc. ) and generates a working file
called
.pN FILE30
which is the real starting point of each calculation.
The
.B input
program can handle a total of 50 atoms, 120 unique shells, and 360
primitive gaussian functions.  The
.B input
program limits the use of symmetry
point groups to
.if n D2h
.if t D\s-2\d2h\u\s0
and its subgroups.

.SH REFERENCES

.LP
For STO basis sets:
.IP "1."
W. J. Hehre, R. F. Stewart and J.A. Pople, J. Chem. Phys. 51
(1969) 2657.
.IP "2."
W. J. Hehre, R. Ditchfield, R. F. Stewart and J.A. Pople, J. Chem.
Phys. 52 (1970) 2769.

.LP
For DZ and the old TZ basis sets:
.IP "1."
S. Huzinaga,    J. Chem. Phys. 42 (1965) 1293.
.IP "2."
T. H. Dunning,  J. Chem. Phys. 53 (1970) 2823.

.LP
For DZP basis sets:
  for Li and Be;
.IP "1."
A. J. Thakkar, T. Koga, M. Saito, R. E. Hoffmeyer, Inter. J. Quant. Chem.
Symp. 27 (1993) 343.
.LP
  for Na and Mg;
.IP "1."
S. Huzinaga, Approximate Atomic Wavefunction II, Dept. of Chem. Report, 
Univ. of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, 1971.

.LP
For the Rydberg and negative ion basis sets:
.IP "1."
T. H. Dunning, Jr. and P. J. Hay, in Modern Theoretical Chemistry,
Volume 3, Ed. H. F. Schaefer III, Plenum Press, NY, 1977.

.LP
For the new TZ basis sets:
.IP "1."
T. H. Dunning, J. Chem. Phys. 55, (1971) 716.
.IP "2."
A. D. McLean and G. S. Chandler, J. Chem. Phys., 72 (1980) 5639.

.LP
For the general contracted basis sets:
.IP "1."
T. H. Dunning Jr., J. Chem. Phys. 90, (1989).
.IP "2."
F. B. van Duijneveldt, IBM Res. Rep.  RJ 945 (1971).

.LP
For the Wachters basis sets:
.IP "1."
A. J. H. Wachters, J. Chem. Phys. 52, (1970) 1033.

.LP
For the cc-pVXZ (X=D,T,Q) basis sets for hydrogen and the 
  first row atoms B-Ne:
.IP "1."
T.H. Dunning, Jr., J. Chem. Phys. 90, 1007 (1989).

.LP
For the aug-cc-pVXZ (X=D,T,Q) basis sets for H and B-Ne:
.IP "1."
R.A. Kendall, T.H. Dunning, Jr., and R.J. Harrison, J. Chem. Phys.
96, 6796 (1992).

.LP
For the cc-pVXZ and aug-cc-pVXZ (X=D,T,Q) sets for the 
  second row atoms Al-Ar:
.IP "1."
D.E. Woon and T.H. Dunning, Jr., J. Chem. Phys. 98, 1358 (1993).

.LP
For the cc-pVXZ (X=D,T,Q) basis sets for helium; cc-pV5Z and 
  aug-cc-pV5Z basis sets for H, B-Ne, and Al-Ar:
.IP "1."
D.E. Woon, K.A. Peterson, and T.H. Dunning, Jr. (unpublished).

.LP
For the cc-pVXZ and aug-cc-pVXZ (X=D,T,Q) basis sets for 
  lithium, beryllium, and sodium; cc-pV5Z and aug-cc-pV5Z
  basis sets for beryllium:
.IP "1."
D.E. Woon and T.H. Dunning, Jr. (unpublished).

.LP
Also see
.IP "1."
R. Poirier, R. Kari and I. G. Csizmadia, "Handbook of Gaussian
Basis Sets" Phys. Sci. Data 24 (Elsevier, 1985),
and references therein.

.sL
.pN INPUT
.eL "FILES REQUIRED"

.sL
.pN "user defined basis file"
.pN BASIS
.eL "FILES OPTIONAL"

.sL
.pN SLOFILE
.pN OUTPUT
.pN CHECK
.pN FILE30
.eL "FILES GENERATED"

.SH INPUT FORMAT
.LP
The
.B input
program
searches through the default keyword path (first
.B INPUT
and then
.BR DEFAULT )
for the following keywords:

.IP "\fBLABEL =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This is a descriptive label for the calculation.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBNORMBASIS =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If \fBNORMBASIS=YES\fP, the molecular orbital coefficients of the
occupied orbitals are given in terms of normalized
contracted basis functions.
This should always be true.  The default is true.

.IP "\fBPRIMNORM =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If \fBPRIMNORM=YES\fP, the contraction coefficients of the
D, F, and G
primitive functions that are input should be the ones
corresponding to the normalized D(XX), F(XXX) and G(XXXX)
primitives.
All of the basis sets provided
with Psi require that this be true.  The default is true.

.IP "\fBPRESERVE =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If this is true, then an attempt is made to preserve the
information stored in
.pN FILE30 .
If you need to run
.pN input
over again, then you usually do not want to preserve this information,
so this should usually be false.  The default is false.

.IP "\fBSYMMETRY =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This is the point group of the molecule.
For the
.if n C1
.if t C\s-2\d1\u\s0
point group
use \fIstring\fP \fB= C1\fP;
for
.if n Cs
.if t C\s-2\ds\u\s0
use \fBCS\fP;
for
.if n Ci
.if t C\s-2\di\u\s0
use \fBCI\fP;
for
.if n C2
.if t C\s-2\d2\u\s0
use \fBC2\fP;
for
.if n C2h
.if t C\s-2\d2h\u\s0
use \fBC2H\fP;
for
.if n C2v
.if t C\s-2\d2v\u\s0
use \fBC2V\fP;
for
.if n D2
.if t D\s-2\d2\u\s0
use \fBD2\fP;
and
for
.if n D2h
.if t D\s-2\d2h\u\s0
use \fBD2H\fP.
For linear molecules, point groups
.if n C2v
.if t C\s-2\d2v\u\s0
or
.if n D2h
.if t D\s-2\d2h\u\s0
should be used.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBORIGIN =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
This option allows the origin to be specified for
the local symmetry frame.
It is a vector of three floating point numbers:
.if n X0,
.if t X\s-2\d0\u\s0,
.if n Y0,
.if t Y\s-2\d0\u\s0,
and
.if n Z0.
.if t Z\s-2\d0\u\s0.
The default is \fB(0.0 0.0 0.0)\fP.

.IP "\fBZ_AXIS =\fP \fIreal_array\fP"
This option allows the z axis to be specified for
the local symmetry frame.
It is a vector of three floating point numbers:
.if n Xz,
.if t X\s-2\dz\u\s0,
.if n Yz,
.if t Y\s-2\dz\u\s0,
and
.if n Zz.
.if t Z\s-2\dz\u\s0.
The z axis is defined as the line passing through the points
given by \fBORIGIN\fP and \fBZ_AXIS\fP + \fBORIGIN\fP.
The default is \fB(0.0 0.0 1.0)\fP.

.IP "\fBX_AXIS =\fP \fIreal_array\fP"
This option allows the x axis to be specified for
the local symmetry frame.
It is a vector of three floating point numbers:
.if n Xx,
.if t X\s-2\dx\u\s0,
.if n Yx,
.if t Y\s-2\dx\u\s0,
and
.if n Zx.
.if t Z\s-2\dx\u\s0.
The x axis is defined as the line passing through the points
given by \fBORIGIN\fP and \fBX_AXIS\fP + \fBORIGIN\fP.
The user must be certain that the x axis and z axis computed in
this way are perpendicular.  If they are not perpendicular,
then \fBORIGIN\fP is implicitly redefined to make them
perpendicular.
The default is \fB(1.0 0.0 0.0)\fP.

.LP
The y axis is fixed by the specification of the x axis and z axis.
Note that
for the
.if n C1
.if t C\s-2\d1\u\s0
point group, \fBORIGIN\fP, \fBZ_AXIS\fP, and \fBX_AXIS\fP are ignored.
For the
.if n Ci
.if t C\s-2\di\u\s0
point group \fBZ_AXIS\fP and \fBX_AXIS\fP are ignored.
For the
.if n Cs
.if t C\s-2\ds\u\s0
point group the plane containing the x and y axes is the
.if n sigma h
.if t \(*s\s-2\dh\u\s0
plane.

.IP "\fBUNITS =\fP \fIstring\fP"
If \fIstring\fP is \fBBOHR\fR, then the \fBGEOMETRY\fP array is in bohr.
If \fIstring\fP is \fBANGSTROM\fR, then the \fBGEOMETRY\fP array
is in angstoms.
The default is \fBBOHR\fP.

.IP "\fBCHARGES =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
This vector gives the charge on each unique atom in atomic units.
The charges default to the atomic number.

.IP "\fBGEOMETRY =\fP \fIreal_array\fP"
The \fIreal_array\fP is a vector of coordinates of each unique atom.
Each element of this vector is another vector in the
form \fB(\fP\fIx\fP \fIy\fP \fIz\fP\fB)\fP.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBATOMS =\fP \fIstring_array\fP"
This gives the atom name for each unique center.
The atom name can either be the actual name or the atomic symbol, ie
carbon could be "CARBON" or "C".  There is no default.

.IP "\fBGENCON =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If \fIboolean\fP is \fBTRUE\fP, then generalized contractions will be
formed whenever possible.  The default is false.

.IP "\fBPUREAM =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If \fIboolean\fP is \fBTRUE\fP, then shells with pure angular momentum
will be used.  Thus, a D shell will have five function, a F shell will
have seven functions, and a G shell will have nine functions.
The default is false.

.IP "\fBBASIS =\fP \fIstring_array\fP"
This gives the name of the basis set to be used on each unique center.
The basis set can also be given as a single string (ie, not an array...
no parentheses) if you want to use the same basis set for each atom.
There is no default.

.IP "\fBFILES =\fP \fIkeyword_vector\fP"
This section is used to specify alternate files to be searched for
basis set information.  Usable keywords are \fBPATH\fP, \fBNAME\fP,
and \fBEXTENSION\fP.  An example is given below.

.IP "\fBFILES:PATH =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This gives the name of the directory in which additional basis set 
information can be found.  The default value is the working directory
of the job.  Standard / symbols are acceptable, but quotation marks should
be placed around the entire argument.  Periods (.) are unacceptable.

.IP "\fBFILES:NAME =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This gives the basename of a file in the directory specified by \fBPATH\fP
in which additional basis set information can be found.  If no value 
is given, the program will search for a file named basis.dat.  If a value 
is given, then an \fBEXTENSION\fP must also be given.

.IP "\fBFILES:EXTENSION =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This specifies an extension to the basename given by \fBNAME\fP.  
\fBEXTENSION\fP will automatically be concatenated onto \fBNAME\fP with a 
period for a separator.

.SH BASIS SETS
.LP
The
.B input
program
searches through the \fBBASIS\fP keyword path for the basis set information.
It first searches through the user's
.pN INPUT
file, then searches through a
.pN BASIS 
file in the working directory (if one exists), and then through a user 
specified basis file given in the \fBFILES\fP subsection (if any).
Finally, it searches through the
.pN PBASIS
file in the Psi library directory.
The name of the basis set which is searched for is obtained by
appending the atom name to the basis name with a ':' inbetween.
The format of the basis set information is best understood by looking
in the
.pN PBASIS
file.

.SH STANDARD BASIS SETS
.LP
Psi can use
use standard basis sets
which are provided in a file named
.pN PBASIS .
in the Psi library directory.  Many of the basis set names contain
nonalphanumeric characters.  These names must be surrounded by `"'.
.IP "STO" 25
This gets the STO-3G basis set which is available for hydrogen-argon.
The STO-3G basis sets for the atoms sodium-argon contain a D function.
.IP "DZ" 25
This gets double zeta (DZ) basis set, which is (4s/2s)
for hydrogen, (9s5p/4s2p) for boron-fluorine, and (11s7p/6s4p) for
aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "(4S/2S)" 25
This gets a DZ basis set for hydrogen.
.IP "(9S5P/4S2P)" 25
This gets a DZ basis set for boron-fluorine.
.IP "(11S7P/6S4P)" 25
This gets a DZ basis set for aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "DZP-OLD" 25
This is a DZ basis set with a shell of polarization functions added.
The exponents of these functions are the old value.
It is available for hydrogen, boron-fluorine, and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "TZ-OLD" 25
The old triple zeta (TZ) basis set is (4s/3s) for hydrogen,
(9s5p/5s3p) for boron-fluorine, and (11s7p/7s5p) for
aluminum-chlorine.  The TZ basis set
is triple zeta in the valence only.
This basis is provided for verification of old results; do not use it.
.IP "TZP-OLD" 25
This is the old TZ basis set with the old polarization functions added.
It is available for hydrogen, boron-fluorine, and aluminum-chlorine.
This basis is provided for verification of old results; do not use it.
.IP "(5S/3S)" 25
This gets a TZ basis set for hydrogen.
.IP "(10S6P/5S3P)" 25
This gets a TZ basis set for boron-neon.
The TZ basis set is triple zeta in the valence only.
.IP "(12S9P/6S5P)" 25
This gets a TZ basis set for sodium-argon.
The TZ basis set is triple zeta in the valence only.
.IP "1P_POLARIZATION" 25
This gets a set of polarization functions for hydrogen.
.IP "1D_POLARIZATION" 25
This gets a set of polarization functions for
boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "2P_POLARIZATION" 25
This gets two sets of polarization functions for hydrogen.
.IP "2D_POLARIZATION" 25
This gets two sets of polarization functions for
boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "1D_POLARIZATION" 25
This gets a set of second polarization functions for hydrogen.
.IP "1F_POLARIZATION" 25
This gets a set of second polarization functions for
boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "DZP" 25
This gets a (4S/2S) basis with a "1P_POLARIZATION" function 
for hydrogen, a (9S5P/4S2P) basis with a "1D_POLARIZATION"
funtion for lithium-flourine, a (11S5P/7S2P) plus two even-tempered p
functions for sodium and magnesium, and a (11S7P/6S4P) basis with a
"1D_POLARIZATION" function for aluminium-chlorine.

.IP "TZ2P" 25
This gets a (5S/3S) basis with "2P_POLARIZATION" functions 
for hydrogen, a (10S6P/5S3P) basis with "2D_POLARIZATION"
funtions for boron-flourine, and a (12S9P/6S5P) basis with
"2D_POLARIZATION" functions for aluminium-chlorine.
.IP "DZ_DIF" 25
This gets a DZ basis with a diffuse s for hydrogen, and a diffuse s
and diffuse p for boron-flourine, and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "TZ_DIF" 25
This gets a TZ basis with a diffuse s for hydrogen, and a diffuse s
and diffuse p for boron-flourine, and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "DZP_DIF" 25
This gets the DZP basis with
a diffuse s for hydrogen, and a diffuse s
and diffuse p for boron-flourine, and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "TZ2P_DIF" 25
This gets the TZ2P basis with 
a diffuse s for hydrogen, and a diffuse s
and diffuse p for boron-flourine, and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "TZ2PF"
This gets the TZ2P basis and adds "1D_POLARIZATION"
for hydrogen and "1F_POLARIZATION" for boron-flourine,
and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "TZ2PD"
This gets the TZ2PF basis set for hydrogen.
.IP "TZ2PF_DIF"
This gets a TZ2PF basis and adds the appropriate s diffuse functions
for hydrogen and s and p
diffuse functions
for boron-flourine,
and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "CCPVDZ"
This gets the segmentally contracted correlation consistent basis set cc-pVDZ, 
which is (4s1p/2s1p) 
for hydrogen and helium, (9s4p1d/3s2p1d) for lithium - neon, and 
(12s8p1d/4s3p1d) for sodium and aluminum - argon.
.IP "CCPVTZ"
This gets the segmentally contracted correlation consistent basis set cc-pVTZ, 
which is (5s2p1d/3s2p1d)
for hydrogen and helium, (10s5p2d1f/4s3p2d1f) for lithium - neon, and
(15s9p2d1f/5s4p2d1f) for sodium and aluminum - argon.
.IP "CCPVQZ"
This gets the segmentally contracted correlation consistent basis set cc-pVQZ, 
which is (6s3p2d1f/4s3p2d1f)
for hydrogen and helium, (12s6p3d2f1g/5s4p3d2f1g) for lithium - neon, and
(16s11p3d2f1g/6s5p3d2f1g) for sodium and aluminum - argon.
.IP "CCPV5Z"
This gets the segmentally contracted correlation consistent basis set cc-pV5Z, 
which is (8s4p3d2f1g/5s4p3d2f1g)
for hydrogen and helium, (14s8p4d3f2g1h/6s5p4d3f2g1h) for beryllium - neon, and
(20s12p4d3f2g1h/7s6p4d3f2g1h) for aluminum - argon.
.IP " "
.B PLEASE NOTE:
The correlation consistent basis sets cc-pVXZ (X = D, T, Q, 5) are designed
for use with pure angular momentum functions.
.IP "AUGCCPVDZ"
This gets the correlation consistent basis set aug-cc-pVDZ, which is the cc-pVDZ basis set
augmented with optimized diffuse functions.  This is a diffuse (1s1p) set for hydrogen 
and helium and a diffuse (1s1p1d) set for lithium - neon, sodium, and aluminum - argon.
.IP "AUGCCPVTZ"
This gets the correlation consistent basis set aug-cc-pVTZ, which is the cc-pVTZ basis set
augmented with optimized diffuse functions.  This is a diffuse (1s1p1d) set for hydrogen
and helium and a diffuse (1s1p1d1f) set for lithium - neon, sodium, and aluminum - argon.
.IP "AUGCCPVQZ"
This gets the correlation consistent basis set aug-cc-pVQZ, which is the cc-pVQZ basis set
augmented with optimized diffuse functions.  This is a diffuse (1s1p1d1f) set for hydrogen
and helium and a diffuse (1s1p1d1f1g) set for lithium - neon, sodium, and aluminum - argon.
.IP "AUGCCPV5Z"
This gets the correlation consistent basis set aug-cc-pV5Z, which is the cc-pV5Z basis set
augmented with optimized diffuse functions.  This is a diffuse (1s1p1d1f1g) set for hydrogen
and helium and a diffuse (1s1p1d1f1g1h) set for beryllium - neon and aluminum - argon.
.IP "GCVDZ" 25
A general contracted basis set for hydrogen, for which it
is (4s)/[2s], and for boron-neon for which it is (9s4p)/[3s2p].
.IP "GCVTZ" 25
A general contracted basis set for hydrogen, for which it
is (5s)/[3s], and for boron-neon for which
it is (10s5p)/[4s3p].
.IP "GCVQZ" 25
A general contracted basis set for hydrogen, for which it
is (6s)/[4s], and for boron-neon for which
it is (12s6p)/[5s4p].
.IP "GCV1P"
This gets one P polarization shell for hydrogen (for use with GCVDZ).
.IP "GCV2P"
This gets two P polarization shells for hydrogen (for use with GCVTZ).
.IP "GCV3P"
This gets three P polarization shells for hydrogen (for use with GCVQZ).
.IP "GCV1D"
This gets one D polarization shell for hydrogen (for use with GCVTZ) and
boron-neon (for use with GCVDZ).
.IP "GCV2D"
This gets two D polarization shells for hydrogen (for use with GCVQZ)
and boron-neon (for use with GCVTZ).
.IP "GCV3D"
This gets three D polarization shells for boron-neon (for use with GCVQZ).
.IP "GCV1F"
This gets one F polarization shell for hydrogen (for use with GCVQZ)
and boron-neon (for use with GCVTZ).
.IP "GCV2F"
This gets two F polarization shells for boron-neon (for use with GCVQZ).
.IP "GCV1G"
This gets one G polarization shell for boron-neon (for use with GCVQZ).

.IP "GCV1DPURE"
This is GCV1D with pure angular momentum explicitly turned on.
.IP "GCV2DPURE"
This is GCV2D with pure angular momentum explicitly turned on.
.IP "GCV3DPURE"
This is GCV3D with pure angular momentum explicitly turned on.
.IP "GCV1FPURE"
This is GCV1F with pure angular momentum explicitly turned on.
.IP "GCV2FPURE"
This is GCV2F with pure angular momentum explicitly turned on.
.IP "GCV1GPURE"
This is GCV1G with pure angular momentum explicitly turned on.

.IP "GCVDZP" 25
A general contracted basis set for hydrogen, for which it
is (4s1p)/[2s1p], and for boron-neon, for which it is (9s4p1d)/[3s2p1d].
.IP "GCVTZP" 25
A general contracted basis set for hydrogen, for which it
is (5s2p1d)/[3s2p1d], and for boron-neon, for which
it is (10s5p2d1f)/[4s3p2d1f].
.IP "GCVQZP" 25
A general contracted basis set for hydrogen, for which it
is (6s3p2d1f)/[4s3p2d1f], and for boron-neon for which
it is (12s6p3d2f1g)/[5s4p3d2f1g].
.IP "DUNNING_RYDBERG_3S" 25
This gets a Rydberg shell for boron-fluorine.
.IP "DUNNING_RYDBERG_3P" 25
This gets a Rydberg shell for boron-fluorine.
.IP "DUNNING_RYDBERG_3D" 25
This gets a Rydberg shell for boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "DUNNING_RYDBERG_4S" 25
This gets a Rydberg shell for boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "DUNNING_RYDBERG_4P" 25
This gets a Rydberg shell for boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "DUNNING_RYDBERG_4D" 25
This gets a Rydberg shell for boron-fluorine.
.IP "DUNNING_NEGATIVE_ION_2P" 25
This gets a diffuse shell for boron-fluorine and aluminum-chlorine.
.IP "WACHTERS" 25
This gets a (14s11p6d/10s8p3d) basis set for potassium,scandium-zinc.
.IP "321G" 25
This gets a 3-21G basis set for hydrogen-argon.
.IP "631G" 25
This gets a 6-31G basis set for hydrogen-argon.
.IP "6311G" 25
This gets a 6-311G basis set for hydrogen-neon.
.IP "631GST" 25
This gets a 6-31G* basis set for hydrogen-argon.
.IP "631PGS" 25
This gets a 6-31+G* basis set for hydrogen-argon.
.IP "6311PPGSS" 25
This gets a 6-311++G** basis set for hydrogen-neon.
.IP "PLUSS" 25
This gets a diffuse S (Pople) for hydrogen-argon.
.IP "PLUSP" 25
This gets a diffuse P (Pople) for hydrogen-argon.

.SH PRINT CONTROL
The following print control options are recognized by \fBinput\fP:

.IP \fBBRIEF\fP
This causes only essential output to be given.
The default is \fBON\fP.
.IP \fBANGSTROM\fP
This will print the interatomic distances in angstroms.
The default is \fBON\fP.
.IP \fBBOHR\fP
This will print the interatomic distances in bohr.
The default is \fBOFF\fP.
.IP \fBDEGREE\fP
This will print out the bond angles in degrees.  Only angles involving
bonds with a length below a certain cutoff threshold are shown.
The default is \fBON\fP.
.IP \fBRADIAN\fP
This will print out the bond angles in radians.  Only angles involving
bonds with a length below a certain cutoff threshold are shown.
The default is \fBOFF\fP.
.IP \fBDEBUG\fP
This causes extra information to be written to the output.  Turning
this \fBON\fP is the same as turning \fBBRIEF\fP \fBOFF\fP.  The
default is \fBOFF\fP.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following input is for the water molecule:

.DS
  default: (
    symmetry = c2v
    )

  input: (
    atoms = (oxygen hydrogen)
    basis = (dz dz)
    charges = (8 1)
    geometry = ((0.0  0.00000000   0.00000000)
                (0.0 -1.49495900   0.99859206))
    )
.DE

The following input is equivalent to the above example:

.DS
  default: (
    symmetry = c2v
    )

  input: (
    atoms = (o h)
    basis = dz
    geometry = ((0.0  0.00000000   0.00000000)
                (0.0 -1.49495900   0.99859206))
    )
.DE


.SH BASIS SET EXAMPLE
.LP
The following lines input could be placed in an input file to redefine
the hydrogen DZP basis set.
Note that double quotes must be used when a basis set name has special
characters in it.

.DS
basis: (
  % definition for hydrogen's DZP basis:
  hydrogen:dzp = (
    % inserts hydrogen:dz:
    (get "DZ")
    % uses pbasis.dat for polarization:
    (get "DUNNING_POLARIZATION")
    )
  % definition for hydrogen's DZ basis:
  hydrogen:dz = (
    % inserts hydrogen:"HUZINAGA-DUNNING_(9S/4S)":
    (get "HUZINAGA-DUNNING_(9S/4S)")
    )
  % definition for hydrogen's (9s/4s) basis:
  hydrogen:"HUZINAGA-DUNNING_(9S/4S)" = (
    (S (     19.2406     0.032828)
       (      2.8992     0.231208)
       (      0.6534     0.817238))
    (S (      0.1776     1.0))
    )
  )
.DE

.SH FILES SUBSECTION EXAMPLE
.LP
The following lines input could be placed in an input file to define
an alternate location to look for basis set information.
Note that double quotes must be used when a string has special
characters in it.

.DS
input: (
  symmetry = c2v
  atoms = (o h)
  basis = mydzp
  geometry = ((0.0  0.00000000   0.00000000)
              (0.0 -1.49495900   0.99859206))
  files: (
    %  I like to keep everything in my chem applications 
    %  sub directory.
    %  Basis set is in 
    %    /home/general/user/chem/my_very_own.basis
    path = "/home/general/user/chem/"
    name = "my_very_own"
    extension = "basis"
    )
  )
.DE

.DS
input: (
  files: (
    %  I like to keep everything in it's own directory.
    %  Basis set is in 
    %    /home/general/user/basis/dzp_plus_diff/basis.dat
    path = "/home/general/user/basis/dzp_plus_diff/"
    )
  symmetry = c2v
  atoms = (o h)
  basis = dzpdiff
  geometry = ((0.0  0.00000000   0.00000000)
              (0.0 -1.49495900   0.99859206))
  )
.DE

