
.ds OS UNIX

.\"     @(#)tmac.an 1.37 90/02/04 SMI;
.ds ]W Psi Release 1.1
'	# month name
.  \".if "\nd"0" .nr m \n(mo-1
.  \".if "\nm"0" .ds ]m January
.  \".if "\nm"1" .ds ]m February
.  \".if "\nm"2" .ds ]m March
.  \".if "\nm"3" .ds ]m April
.  \".if "\nm"4" .ds ]m May
.  \".if "\nm"5" .ds ]m June
.  \".if "\nm"6" .ds ]m July
.  \".if "\nm"7" .ds ]m August
.  \".if "\nm"8" .ds ]m September
.  \".if "\nm"9" .ds ]m October
.  \".if "\nm"10" .ds ]m November
.  \".if "\nm"11" .ds ]m December
'	# set the date
.  \".if n \{.nr m \nm+1
.  \".	 ie \nd .ds ]W Modified \nm/\nd/\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W Printed \n(mo/\n(dy/\n(yr\}
.  \".if t \{.ie \nd .ds ]W \*(]m \nd, 19\ny
.  \".	 el .ds ]W \*(]m \n(dy, 19\n(yr\}
'	# end of commented out chunk
.if t .tr *\(**
.ie n \{\
.	ds lq \&"\"
.	ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.	ds rq ''
.	ds lq ``
.\}
.de UC
.  \".if t \{\
.  \".	ie "\\$1"" .ds ]W 3rd Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	ie "\\$1"4" .ds ]W \\$1th Berkeley Distribution
.  \".	el .ds ]w \\$2 \\$1 BSD
.  \".\}
..
'	# reset the basic page layout
.de }E
.}f
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.ll \\n(LLu
..
'	# default tabs
.de DT
'ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i 6i 6.5i
..
'	# set type font and size
.de }f
.ps 10
.ft 1
..
'	# handle the head of the page
.de }H
.ev 1
.}C
'sp .5i
.ft 1
.ps 10
.tl \\*(]H\\*(]D\\*(]H
'sp .5i
.ev
.ns
..
'	# handle the foot of the page
.de }F
.ev 1
.ft 1
.ps 10
'sp .5i
.if !\\nD .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if o .tl \\*(]W\\*(]L\\*(PN%
.if  \\nD .if e .tl \\*(PN%\\*(]L\\*(]W
.if !\\nX 'bp
.if \\nX .if \\n%>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\n%
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0
'bp 1\}
.if \\nX .if \\n%<\\nX 'bp
.ev
..
'	# the cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".if n .ig
.  \".de }C
.  \".po .1i
.  \".tl '-'
.  \".po
.  \"..
'	# the final cut mark -- we don't need this -- Henry
.  \".de }M
.  \".}N
.  \".wh -1p }C
.  \".ll \\n(LLu
.  \"..
'	# no runout unless there was a .TH
.de }K
.}N
.pl 1
.ll \\n(LLu
..
.em }K
'	# set title and heading
.de TH
.PD
.DT
.if n .nr IN .5i
.if t .nr IN .5i
.ll 6.5i
.nr LL \\n(.l
.ds ]H \\$1\|(\|\\$2\|)
.ds ]D MISC. REFERENCE MANUAL PAGES
.if '\\$2'1' .ds ]D PSI COMMANDS FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'2' .ds ]D PSI COMMON INPUT FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'3' .ds ]D PSI PROCEDURES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'4' .ds ]D PSI EXAMPLES FOR \\*(pT
.if '\\$2'5' .ds ]D PSI LIBRARY
.if !'\\$4''  .ds ]W \\$4
.if !'\\$5''  .ds ]D \\$5
.wh 0 }H
.if t .wh -1i }F
.if n .wh -1.167i }F
.em }M
.if !\\n(nl .if !\\nP .nr P 1
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .pn \\nP
.if \\nX .if \\nP>=\\nX \{\
.ds PN \\nP
.pn 1
.af % a
.nr X 0 \}
.if !\\n(nl .if \\nP .nr P 0
.if  \\nC .if \\n(nl .bp
.if  !\\nC .if \\n(nl .bp 1
.ds ]L Last change: \\$3
.}E
.DT
.nr )I .5i
.nr )R 0
.  \".if n .na
.mk ka
.if !'\\n(ka'-1' .bp
..
'	# IX - Make an Index Entry
.de IX
.if \\nF .tm .IE\tENTRY\t\\$1\t\\$2\t\\$3\t\\$4\t\\$5\t\\$6\t\\*(PN\\n%
..
'	# TX - Resolve a Title Reference
.de TX
.ds Tx "UNKNOWN TITLE ABBREVIATION: \\$1
.if '\\$1'GSBG' .ds Tx "Getting Started 
.if '\\$1'SUBG' .ds Tx "Customizing SunOS
.if '\\$1'SHBG' .ds Tx "Basic Troubleshooting
.if '\\$1'SVBG' .ds Tx "SunView User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MMBG' .ds Tx "Mail and Messages
.if '\\$1'DMBG' .ds Tx "Doing More with SunOS
.if '\\$1'UNBG' .ds Tx "Using the Network
.if '\\$1'GDBG' .ds Tx "Games, Demos & Other Pursuits
.if '\\$1'CHANGE' .ds Tx "SunOS 4.1 Release Manual
.if '\\$1'INSTALL' .ds Tx "Installing SunOS 4.1
.if '\\$1'ADMIN' .ds Tx "System and Network Administration
.if '\\$1'SECUR' .ds Tx "Security Features Guide
.if '\\$1'PROM' .ds Tx "PROM User's Manual
.if '\\$1'DIAG' .ds Tx "Sun System Diagnostics
.if '\\$1'SUNDIAG' .ds Tx "Sundiag User's Guide
.if '\\$1'MANPAGES' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'REFMAN' .ds Tx "SunOS Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'SSI' .ds Tx "Sun System Introduction
.if '\\$1'SSO' .ds Tx "System Services Overview
.if '\\$1'TEXT' .ds Tx "Editing Text Files
.if '\\$1'DOCS' .ds Tx "Formatting Documents
.if '\\$1'TROFF' .ds Tx "Using \&\fBnroff\fP and \&\fBtroff\fP
.if '\\$1'INDEX' .ds Tx "Global Index
.if '\\$1'CPG' .ds Tx "C Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'CREF' .ds Tx "C Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'ASSY' .ds Tx "Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'PUL' .ds Tx "Programming Utilities and Libraries
.if '\\$1'DEBUG' .ds Tx "Debugging Tools
.if '\\$1'NETP' .ds Tx "Network Programming
.if '\\$1'DRIVER' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers
.if '\\$1'STREAMS' .ds Tx "STREAMS Programming
.if '\\$1'SBDK' .ds Tx "SBus Developer's Kit
.if '\\$1'WDDS' .ds Tx "Writing Device Drivers for the SBus
.if '\\$1'FPOINT' .ds Tx "Floating-Point Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'SVSPG' .ds Tx "SunView\ 1 System Programmer's Guide
.if '\\$1'PIXRCT' .ds Tx "Pixrect Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CGI' .ds Tx "SunCGI Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'CORE' .ds Tx "SunCore Reference Manual
.if '\\$1'4ASSY' .ds Tx "Sun-4 Assembly Language Reference
.if '\\$1'SARCH' .ds Tx "\s-1SPARC\s0 Architecture Manual
.	# non-Sun titles
.if '\\$1'KR' .ds Tx "The C Programming Language
\fI\\*(Tx\fP\\$2
..
'	# section heading
.de SH
.}X 0
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
..
'   # sub section heading
.de SS
.}X .25i "" ""
.nr )E 2
\&\\$1 \|\\$2 \|\\$3 \|\\$4 \|\\$5 \|\\$6
.br
..
'	# subroutine for section heading
.de }X
.}E
.ti \\$1
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.nr )R 0
.fi
.it 1 }N
.SM
.B
..
'	# end of SH (cf }X above and }N below)
.de }2
.nr )E 0
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# italic
.de I
.ft 2
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# bold
.de B
.ft 3
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# small
.de SM
.ps 9
.it 1 }N
.if !"\\$1"" \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
'	# combinations of Roman, italic, bold
.de RI
.}S 1 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de VS
'if '\\$1'4' .mc \s12\(br\s0
..
.de VE
'mc
..
.de RB
.}S 1 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IR
.}S 2 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de IB
.}S 2 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BR
.}S 3 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de BI
.}S 3 2 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
'	# make special case of shift out of italic
.de }S
.ds ]F
.if "\\$1"2" .if !"\\$5"" .ds ]F\^
.ie !"\\$4"" .}S \\$2 \\$1 "\\$3\f\\$1\\$4\\*(]F" "\\$5" "\\$6" "\\$7" "\\$8" "\\$9"
.el \\$3
.}f
..
'	# small and boldface
.de SB
\&\fB\s-1\&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6\s0\fR
..
'	# paragraph
.de LP
.PP
..
.de PP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.}E
.nr )I .5i
.ns
..
'	# paragraph distance
.de PD
.if t .nr )P .4v
.if n .nr )P 1v
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )P \\$1v
..
'	# hanging indent
.de HP
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n()Ru+\\n(INu
.}f
..
'	# indented paragraph
.de IP
.TP \\$2
\&\\$1
..
'	# hanging label
.de TP
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.sp \\n()Pu
.in \\n()Ru
.nr )E 1
.ns
.it 1 }N
.di ]B
..
'	# end of TP (cf }N below)
.de }1
.ds ]X \&\\*(]B\\
.nr )E 0
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )I \\$1n
.}f
.ll \\n(LLu
.in \\n()Ru+\\n(INu+\\n()Iu
.ti \\n(INu
.ie !\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru-\w\\*(]Xu-3p \{\\*(]X
.br\}
.el \\*(]X\h|\\n()Iu+\\n()Ru\c
.}f
..
'	# handle end of 1-line features
.de }N
.if \\n()E .br
.di
.if "\\n()E"0" .}f
.if "\\n()E"1" .}1
.if "\\n()E"2" .}2
.nr )E 0
..
'	# increase relative indent
.de RS
.nr ]\\n+()p \\n()I
.nr )\\n()p \\n()R
.ie !"\\$1"" .nr )R +\\$1n
.el .nr )R +\\n()I
.nr )I .5i
.}E
..
'	# decrease relative indent
.de RE
.if !"\\$1"" \{.ie "\\$1"0" .nr )p 1 1
.		el .nr )p \\$1 1\}
.ds ]i \\*(]I\\n()p
.ds ]r \\*(]R\\n()p
.nr )I \\*(]i
.nr )R \\*(]r
.if \\n()p .nr )p -1
.}E
..
.nr )p 0 1
.ds ]I \\\\n(]
.ds ]R \\\\n()
.bd S 3 3
.if t .ds R \(rg
.if n .ds R (Reg.)
.ds S \s10
.hy 14

.if !'\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(Lv \*(OS USERS
..
.if '\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig
.ds pT \*(OS USERS
..

.ds ]W Psi Release 2.0

.\" This is used to ignore blanks on a line
.\" Its purpose is to make the troff input look prettier.
.de __
\\$1
..

.\" Start List
.de sL                  \" .sL: start an optional list
.di dL
.LP   \" This resets some things, apparently
.nf
..

.\" End List
.de eL                  \" .eL: end an optional list under heading $1
.di
.fi
.\" The number 40 on the following line must be change if sL or eL are changed
.if \\n(dn>40  \{\
.\"SH \\$1 -- \\n(dn \" Use this line for debugging
.SH \\$1
.nf
.dL
.fi
.\}
..

.\" The input skip string, used to space headings.
.ds sS \0\0\0\0\0\0\0

.\" Input Section Header
.iS
.de iS
.LP
.nf
\\$1
.fi
..

.\" Input Line
.de iL
.IP "\\$1" 7
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option
.de iO
.IP "\\*(sS\\$1" 14
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Input Option Value
.de iV
.IP "\\*(sS\\*(sS\\$1" 21
.if !'\\$2'' \{\
\\$2
.\}
..

.\" Start CMS
.de sC
.if !'\\*(OS'CMS' .ig eC
..
.\" End Advanced with .eC

.\" Start UNIX
.de sU
.if !'\\*(OS'UNIX' .ig eU
..
.\" End Advanced with .eU

.\" Start Advanced
.de sA
.if !'\\*(Lv'ADVANCED' .ig eA
..
.\" End Advanced with .eA

.\" Start Beginner
.de sB
.if !'\\*(Lv'' .ig eB
..
.\" End Beginner with .eB

.\" Psi Name
.de pN                  \" .pN: convert a generic file name to a specific name
.ta 2.5in
.if '\*(OS'CMS' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO             \" Unix only
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO BASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO PBASIS DATA
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN'  .ds pO HVIB15
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO FILE15
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO FILE91
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO FILE92
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
.if '\*(OS'UNIX' \{\
. ds pO \\$1
. if '\\$1'INPUT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'LMO' .ds pO lmo.dat
. if '\\$1'CONTOUR' .ds pO contour.ps
. if '\\$1'CMO' .ds pO cmo.dat
. if '\\$1'BASIS' .ds pO basis.dat
. if '\\$1'PBASIS' .ds pO pbasis.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL1' .ds pO resul1.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL2' .ds pO resul2.dat
. if '\\$1'RESUL3' .ds pO             \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'SLOFILE' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'INTDERO' .ds pO            \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'MAKEFT' .ds pO resul3.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDER1' .ds pO intder1.dat
. if '\\$1'INTDIFO' .ds pO intdifo.dat
. if '\\$1'IDER'   .ds pO ider.dat
. if '\\$1'OPDM48' .ds pO file51.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_IN' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'HVIB_OUT' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12A' .ds pO file12a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16A' .ds pO file16a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21A' .ds pO file21a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE11' .ds pO file11.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE12' .ds pO file12.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE13' .ds pO file13.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE14' .ds pO file14.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL15' .ds pO total15.dat
. if '\\$1'TOTAL20' .ds pO total20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE15' .ds pO file15.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE16' .ds pO file16.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE17' .ds pO file17.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE18' .ds pO file18.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE19' .ds pO file19.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE20' .ds pO file20.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE21' .ds pO file21.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE22' .ds pO file22.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE23' .ds pO file23.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE24' .ds pO file24.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE25' .ds pO file25.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE91A' .ds pO file91a.dat
. if '\\$1'FILE92A' .ds pO file92a.dat
. if '\\$1'CHECK' .ds pO tape3.dat
. if '\\$1'OUTPUT' .ds pO output.dat\" Unix only
. if '\\$1'FILE6' .ds pO              \" CMS only
. if '\\$1'BMAT' .ds pO input.dat
. if '\\$1'INTCO' .ds pO intco.dat
. if '\\$1'GEOM' .ds pO geom.dat
. if '\\$1'FCONST' .ds pO fconst.dat
. if !'\\*(pO'' \\$3\\*(pO\\$2
.\}
..                      \" End of .pN macro definition

.TH intder 1 " 22 Oct, 1992" "\*(]W" "\*(]D" 
.  \"
.  \" Notice of Document Modification
.  \"
.  \"   changed by rbr      search 12-6-91
.  \"
.  \"
.SH NAME
intder \- general curvilinear transformations

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The program
.B intder
performs general curvilinear transformations among higher
order derivatives (Cartesian <---> internal) and may be used to
calculate vibrational frequency analyses in either internal or
Cartesian coordinates.  The internal coordinates used may be either
simple coordinates or symmetrized combinations.

.LP
It is not necessary to use all 3N-6 internal coordinates when
doing the transformations, but it is wise to transform
complete symmetry blocks (i.e. work out how many normal modes
there are of a particular symmetry and then you need to have
the same number of non-redundant symmetry internal
coordinates).

.LP
.B intder
will generate a file called
.FCONST
which contains internal coordinate force constants in the format
required by 
the
.B bmat
program.

.sL
.pN INPUT        "	"
.pN IDER       	 "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C_R)"
.pN FILE11       "	(if READ_GEOM = FALSE)"
.pN GEOM         "	(if READ_GEOM = TRUE)"
.pN FILE15       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 2)"
.pN FILE17       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and TRANS_DIPDER = TRUE or"
.pN "\&"         "	 if FREQ_ANAL = INT_CO and IRINT_T = DO)"
.pN FILE20       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 3)"
.pN FILE24       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 4)"
.pN FILE12       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C and DERLVL = 1)"
.pN FILE16       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C and DERLVL = 2)"
.pN FILE18       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C and TRANS_DIPDER = TRUE or"
.pN "\&"         "	 if FREQ_ANAL = INT_CO and IRINT_T = DO)"
.pN FILE21       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C and DERLVL = 3)"
.pN FILE25       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C and DERLVL = 4)"
.eL "FILES REQUIRED"

.LP
The files
.pN FILE11 ,
.pN FILE15 ,
.pN FILE20 ,
and
.pN FILE24
are the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th derivatives,
respectively, in Cartesian coordinates.
The files
.pN FILE12 ,
.pN FILE16 ,
.pN FILE21 ,
and
.pN FILE25
are the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th derivatives,
respectively, in internal  coordinates.
The file
.pN FILE17
is the dipole moment derivatives in Cartesian coordinates.
The file
.pN FILE18
is the dipole moment derivatives in internal  coordinates.

.sL
.pN FILE91
.pN FILE92
.pN FILE93
.pN FILE94
.pN FILE95
.pN FILE96
.pN FILE97
.eL "TEMPORARY FILES USED"

.sL
.pN OUTPUT
.eL "FILES UPDATED"

.sL
.pN CHECK
.pN INTDERO
.pN FCONST
.pN FILE11       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C or I_TO_C_R and "
.pN "\&"         "	  DERLVL = 1)"
.pN FILE15       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C or I_TO_C_R and "
.pN "\&"         "	  DERLVL = 2)"
.pN FILE17       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C and "
.pN "\&"         "	  TRANS_DIPDER = DO)"
.pN FILE20       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C or I_TO_C_R and "
.pN "\&"         "	  DERLVL = 3)"
.pN FILE24       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C or I_TO_C_R and "
.pN "\&"         "	  DERLVL = 4)"
.pN FILE12       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 1)"
.pN FILE16       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 2)"
.pN FILE18       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and "
.pN "\&"         "	  TRANS_DIPDER = DO)"
.pN FILE21       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 3)"
.pN FILE25       "	(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I and DERLVL = 4)"
.eL "FILES GENERATED"

.SH INPUT FORMAT
.LP
The input for this program is read from the file
.pN INPUT .
The
.B intder
program reads the definition of internal coordinates from the
.B INTCO
section of the input, and then
searches through the default keyword path (first
.B INTDER
and then
.BR DEFAULT )
The following keywords are valid:


.IP "\fBDERLVL =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
This gives the highest order of derivative to be transformed.  It can have
a value from 1 to 4.  The default is 2.

.IP "\fBTRANS_1DER =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true, then transform first derivatives.  The default is FALSE.

.IP "\fBIPRINT =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
This is a four digit number which will be explained below.  The default is
3000.

.IP "\fBTRANS_TYPE =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This specifies what type of transformation to perform.  If equal to
C_TO_I Cartesian derivatives are transformed to internal coordinate
derivatives.  If equal to I_TO_C then internal coordinate derivatives are
transformed to Cartesian derivatives.  I_TO_C_R is the same as I_TO_C 
except the internal coordinate derivatives are read from the file
.pN IDER
which is produced by the
.B intdif
program.
The default is C_TO_I.

.IP "\fBDUMMY_ATOMS =\fP \fIreal_array\fP"
This array specifies
the Cartesian coordinates of a dummy atom for linear bends (LIN2).
The \fIreal_array\fP is a vector of coordinates of each dummy atom.
Each element of this vector is another vector in the
form \fB(\fP\fIx\fP \fIy\fP \fIz\fP\fB)\fP.
The numbering for the dummy atoms begins at NA+1 (NA = number of atoms).

.IP "\fBREAD_GEOM =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true, then the geometry is read from the top of the
.pN GEOM
file.  Otherwise, the last geometry in
.pN FILE11
is used (unless MULTI is greater than 0).  The default is FALSE.

.IP "\fBFREQ_ANAL =\fP \fIstring\fP"
This option specifies what type of frequency analysis to perform. The options
are:
.  iV            "= NONE"    "no frequency analysis performed"
.  iV            "= INT_CO"  "perform a frequency analysis in internal coordinates"
.  iV            "= CART_CO" "perform a frequency analysis in Cartesian"
.    __                   "coordinates"
.  iV            "= BOTH"    "do frequency analysis in both internal and Cartesian coordinates"
.  iV            "= NONE_R"  "the same as = NONE  except that the force constants"
.    __                   "are input from the"
.    __                   "Q_F_CONSTS vector"
.  iV            "= INT_CO_T"  "perform a frequency analysis in internal coordinates but without transforming any derivatives"
.  iV            "= CART_CO_T"  "perform a frequency analysis in Cartesian coordinates but without transforming any derivatives"
.  iV            "= BOTH_T"  "perform a frequency analysis in internal coordinates and Cartesian coordinates but without transforming any derivatives"
.iL
The default is INT_CO.

.IP "\fBIRINT_T =\fP \fIstring\fP"
If = NONE, then no IR intensities are computed.  If = DO then internal 
coordinate dipole moment derivatives are read in from
.pN FILE18 
and IR intensities are computed.  Setting IRINT_T = DO_R does the same as
DO except that internal coordinate dipole moment derivatives are read
from the INT_DIPDER vector. The default is NONE.

.IP "\fBTRANS_DIPDER =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true then dipole moment derivatives are transformed.
Masses are read in later so that the
transformation is performed according to the
Eckart conditions.
The dipole derivatives are read from
.pN FILE17
or
.pN FILE18
(see below for a description of
the input required).
(also set DERLVL = 1 and TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I or I_TO_C)
(TRANS_DIPDER = TRUE assigns TRANS_1DER = TRUE)
It is not possible to transform dipole moment
derivatives at the same time as energy derivatives.
If TRANS_DIPDER = TRUE, FREQ_ANAL and IRINT_T should be NONE.     \" 12-6-91 rbr ;
.   \"  NONE above was FALSE ; but variables are string type not boolean --- JRT
The default is FALSE.

.IP "\fBSTOP =\fP \fIboolean\fP"
If true
stop after forming the SR(I,J),X(M,N),SR(I,J,K),
and Y(M,N,P) matrices (as governed by DERLVL and TRANS_1DER).
(no auxiliary files are required (unless READ_GEOM = TRUE)).
The default is FALSE.


.IP "\fBMULTI =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
This option specifies the number of geometries to read from
.pN FILE11 .
If it is = 0, the last geometry in 
.pN FILE11
is used.  If = n, then n geometries are read from
.pN FILE11
from the top down.  The default is 0.


.IP "\fBMASSES =\fP \fIreal_vector\fP"
Atomic masses are needed if FREQ_ANAL is not NONE or TRANS_DIPDER is TRUE.
The MASSES vector is a vector of length (# of atoms).
Defaults to standard atomic masses.


.IP "\fBQ_F_CONSTS =\fP \fIreal_matrix\fP"
This matrix must be present if FREQ_ANAL = NONE_R.
Its dimension is NSX by NSX, where NSX = the number of symmetrized
internal coordinates, or the number of simple internal coordinates if
no symmetrized internal coordinates are given.

.IP "\fBINT_DIPDER =\fP \fIreal_matrix\fP"
This matrix must be present if IRINT_T = DO_R.
It is made up of NSX vectors of length 3 and contains 
internal (symmetry) coordinate dipole moment derivatives (x, y, z) in units of
Debye/Angstrom or Debye/radian.
NSX is as defined for Q_F_CONSTS.

.IP "\fBNTEST =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
Numerical testing of derivatives of the internal coodinates
with respect to the Cartesian coordinates is useful for
debugging new types of coordinates added to the program.
.  iV            "= \00"    "no test"
.  iV            "= \01"    "numerically test and check the analytic"
.    __                   "SR(I,J) and X(M,N) matrices"
.  iV            "= -1"    "form the SR(I,J) and X(M,N) matrices"
.    __                   "numerically and use these numerically"
.    __                   "computed matrices in the transformation of"
.    __                   "derivatives"
.  iV            "= \02"    "numerically test and check the analytic"
.    __                   "SR(I,J,K) and X(M,N,P) matrices"
.  iV            "= -2"    "form the SR(I,J,K) and X(M,N,P) matrices"
.    __                   "numerically and use these numerically computed"
.    __                   "matrices in the transformation of derivatives"
.iL
The default is 0.

.\" ---------------------------------------- Uncommonly used input here:
.LP
There are also a couple of less commonly used input parameters.
If you do not understand what the following options mean, then
make sure that they do not appear in your input.  The defaults will
work in the overwhelming majority of cases.
These are specified with the following keywords:

.IP "\fBNVIB =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
The number of vibrational degrees of freedom.  This is used in the
calculation of the zero-point vibrational energy.  NVIB defaults to
3N-5 where N is the number of atoms.  This is normally ok, since
any mode whose frequency is below ZPVE_LIM (see below) will not be included.

.IP "\fBZPVE_LIM =\fP \fIinteger\fP"
The threshold to include frequencies in the calculation of the zero-point
vibrational energy is set to \fIinteger\fP.  The default is 20.


.IP
If TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C_R the unique internal coordinate derivatives
which are non-zero are read in from the 
.pN IDER
file which is produced by the
.B intdif
program.
Use units consistent with the energy in
mdyne*Angstrom.  This line takes one or more of several forms
given in a, b, c, and d.

Format of
.pN IDER

.iL "a. FORMAT(I5,15X,F20.10)"
This must be present if TRANS_1DER is TRUE.
It is repeated for each nonzero first derivative and terminated with M = 0.
.iO       "(1) M"     "This is the symmetry internal coordinate number."
.iO       "(2) F1(M)" "The first derivatives."

.iL "b. FORMAT(2I5,10X,F20.10)"
This must be present if DERLVL >= 2.
It is repeated for each nonzero second derivative and terminated with M = 0.
.iO       "(1) M" "A symmetry internal coordinate number."
.iO       "(2) N" "A symmetry internal coordinate number satisfying M >= N."
.iO       "(3) F2(M,N)" "The second derivatives."

.iL "c. FORMAT(3I5,5X,F20.10)"
This must be present if DERLVL >= 3, in which case, line 6b must also
be present.
It is repeated for each nonzero third derivative and terminated with M = 0.
.iO       "(1) M" "A symmetry internal coordinate number."
.iO       "(2) N" "A symmetry internal coordinate number satisfying M >= N."
.iO       "(3) P" "A symmetry internal coordinate number satisfying N >= P."
.iO       "(4) F3(M,N,P)" "The third derivatives."

.iL "d. FORMAT(4I5,F20.10)"
This must be present if DERLVL >= 4, in which case, lines 6b and 6c must also
be present.
It is repeated for each nonzero fourth derivative and terminated with M = 0.
.iO       "(1) M" "A symmetry internal coordinate number."
.iO       "(2) N" "A symmetry internal coordinate number satisfying M >= N."
.iO       "(3) P" "A symmetry internal coordinate number satisfying N >= P."
.iO       "(4) Q" "A symmetry internal coordinate number satisfying P >= Q."
.iO       "(5) F4(M,N,P,Q)" "The fourth derivatives."

.iL

.SH INTERNAL COORDINATE SPECIFICATION
The defining of internal coordinates is the same as for the
.B bmat
program.  See intco(2) for a description of how to set up the
.B INTCO
input.

.SH PRINT CONTROL
Printing in \fBintder\fP is controlled by the IPRINT option.  This is
a four digit number, DCBA, the meaning of which is as follows:

.iO       A
.  iV        "=  0"     "default, standard output"
.  iV        ">= 1"     "cubic and quartic force constants are printed"
.  iV        ">= 2"     "the symmetrized B matrix is printed"
.  iV        ">= 3"     "the A matrix (= B inverse) is printed"
.  iV        ">= 4"     "the transpose of the symmetrized BB matrix is"
.    __                "printed"
.  iV        ">= 5"     "linear transformation contributions to the force"
.    __                "constants are printed"

.iO       B      "control of printing with the NTEST option"
.  iV        "=  0"     "default, no printing of SR matrices"
.  iV        ">= 1"     "analytic SR and Y matrices are printed as"
.    __                "governed by NTEST"
.  iV        ">= 2"     "error matrices (SR analytic - SR numerical, and"
.    __                "perhaps Y analytic - Y numerical) are printed"
.    __                "as governed by NTEST"

.iO       C      "control of printing with the FREQ_ANAL option"
.  iV        "=  0"     "default, standard output"
.  iV        ">= 1"     "the G matrix and its eigenvalues are printed if"
.    __                "FREQ_ANAL = INT_CO, BOTH or NONE_R."
.  iV        ">= 2"     "the dipole moment derivatives with respect to"
.    __                "normal coordinates are printed if FREQ_ANAL does not"
.    __                "equal NONE."
.  iV        ">= 3"    "eigenvectors for the zero frequencies in normal"
.    __                "coordinates are printed if FREQ_ANAL = CART_CO"
.    __                "or BOTH."

.iO       D      "control of printing to the"
.  __            ".pN CHECK"
.  __            "file"
.  iV        "=  0"     "default, standard output"
.  iV        ">= 1"     "messages from subroutines XIN, XOUT, YIN and"
.    __                "YOUT are suppressed"
.  iV        ">= 2"     "force constants are printed in NINV = 2 format"
.  iV        ">= 4"     "input for use with the old \fBgfmat\fP program is"
.    __                "printed"



.SH DIPOLE MOMENT DERIVATIVES
If TRANS_DIPDER = TRUE, then dipole moment derivatives are to be read from
.pN FILE17
(if TRANS_TYPE = C_TO_I) or from
.pN FILE18
(if TRANS_TYPE = I_TO_C).
.LP
The information required in
.pN FILE17
is:
.iL "1. FORMAT(2I5,3F20.10)"
.iO       NA        "number of atoms"
.iO       ICHG      "total charge on molecule"
.iO       MUX       "X component of dipole moment"
.iO       MUY       "Y component of dipole moment"
.iO       MUZ       "Z component of dipole moment"

.iL "2. FORMAT(3F20.10)"
.iO      "((U(I,J), J=1,NC), I=1,NC)"
.  __              "Cartesian dipole moment derivatives in Debye/A"
.  __              "(NC = 3*NA)"

.LP
The information required in
.pN FILE18
is:
.iL "1. FORMAT(2I5,3F20.10)"
.iO       NA        "number of atoms"
.iO       ICHG      "total charge on molecule"
.iO       MUX       "X component of dipole moment"
.iO       MUY       "Y component of dipole moment"
.iO       MUZ       "Z component of dipole moment"

.iL "2. FORMAT(3F20.10)"
.iO       "((U(M,N), M=1,NSX), N=1,3)"
.  __               "internal (symmetry) coordinate dipole moment"
.  __               "derivatives in Debye/A or Debye/radian"
.  __               "(NSX = number of internal coordinates."
.  __               "NSX = NSYM unless NSYM = 0, and then NSX = NS.)"
.iO
.  __               "Thus, the x-axis dipole derivative with respect"
.  __               "to all of the symmetry internal coordinates are"
.  __               "first, then y-axis, and, finally, z-axis.  Only"
.  __               "three derivatives can be given on each occurance"
.  __               "of line 2."

